UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION

012 3240

In the Matter of

MICROSOFT CORPORATION,

a corporation.

                                                            )

)
)
)
)
)

)

DOCKET NO. C-4069

COMPLAINT

The  Federal  Trade  Commission,  having  reason  to  believe  that  Microsoft,  a  corporation  (“respondent”)
has  violated the provisions of the Federal Trade Commission Act, and it appearing to the Commission that this
proceeding is in the public interest, alleges:

Respondent Microsoft is a Washington corporation with its principal office or place of business at One
1.
Microsoft  Way,  Redmond,  Washington  98052.    Respondent,  a  software  and  technology  company,  has
advertised and promoted its sign-on and online wallet services, Passport and Passport Express Purchase (aka
Passport Wallet), through the company’s Web site at www.passport.com and elsewhere on the Internet.

The acts and practices of respondent as alleged in this complaint have been in or affecting commerce,

2.
as “commerce” is defined in Section 4 of the Federal Trade Commission Act.

Passport Security

3.
Following  the  launch  of  Passport  in  October  1999,  respondent  disseminated  or  caused  to  be
disseminated  various  versions  of  a  “Microsoft  .NET  Passport  Q&A”  on  Passport.com,  including  but  not
necessarily limited to that attached as Exhibit A, containing the following statements:

Security and Privacy

How secure is .NET Passport?

.NET Passport achieves a high level of Web Security by using technologies and systems designed to
prevent unauthorized access to your personal information.

Exhibit A, Microsoft .NET Passport Q&A, http://www.passport.com/Consumer/ ConsumerQA.asp?lc.

4.
Respondent  also  disseminated  or  caused  to  be  disseminated  on  the  home  page  of  its  Web  site  at
Passport.com  various  advertisements,  including  but  not  necessarily  limited  to  that  shown  in  Exhibit  B,
containing the following statements:

Security
Use  .NET  Passport  from  any  computer  on  the  Internet.    Your  .NET  Passport  is  protected  by  powerful
online security technology and a strict privacy policy.

Page 1 of  5

                                                            
Exhibit B, Passport Home Page, http://www.passport.com/Consumer/Default.asp?lc=1033.

5.
including but not limited to the attached Exhibit C, containing the following statements:

Respondent also disseminated or caused to be disseminated various privacy policies on Passport.com,

SECURITY OF YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION

Your  .NET  Passport  information  is  stored  on  secure  .NET  Passport  servers  that  are  protected  in
controlled facilities.

E x h i b i t   C ,   M i c r o s o f t  
PrivacyPolicy.asp?lc=1033.

. N E T   P a s s p o r t   P r i v a c y   P o l i c y ,   h t t p : / / w w w . p a s s p o r t . c o m / C o n s u m e r /

Through the means  described in Paragraphs 3-5, respondent represented, expressly or by implication,
6.
that it maintained a high level of online security by employing sufficient measures reasonable and appropriate
under the circumstances to maintain and protect the privacy and confidentiality of personal information obtained
from or about consumers in connection with the Passport and Passport Wallet services.

In truth and in fact, respondent did not maintain a high level of online security by employing sufficient
7.
measures   reasonable  and  appropriate  under  the  circumstances  to  maintain  and  protect  the  privacy  and
confiden tiality  of  personal  information  obtained  from  or  about  consumers   in  connection  with  the  Passport  and
Passport  Wallet  services.    In  particular,  respondent  failed  to  implement  and  document  procedures  that  were
reasonable  and  appropriate  to:  (1)  prevent  possible  unauthorized  access  to  the  Passport  system;  (2)  detect
possible  unauthorized  access  to  the  Passport  system;  (3)  monitor  the  Passport  system  for  potential
vulnerabilities;  and  (4)  record  and  retain  system  information  sufficient  to  perform  security  audits   a n d
investigations.    In  light  of  these  deficiencies,  taken  together,  the  representation  set  forth  in  Paragraph  6  was
false or misleading.

Passport Wallet Security

8. 
Respondent has  promoted its Passport Express Purchase service, also referred to as Passport Wallet,
as  an  online  service  that  facilitates  consumers’  online  purchases   by  transmitting  credit  card  numbers,  billing
information,  and  shipping  information  stored  in  their  Passport  wallet  to  participating  Express  Purchase  sites.

9. 
Following  the  launch  of  Passport  Wallet  in  October  1999,  respondent  disseminated  or  caused  to  be
disseminated  on  the  home  page  of  its  Web  site  at  Passport.com   various  advertisements,  including  but  not
necessarily limited to that shown in Exhibit B, containing the following statements:

Store  information  in  .NET  Passport  wallet  that  will  help  you  make  faster  safer  online  purchases  at
any .NET Passport express purchase site.

Exhibit B, Passport Home Page, http://www.passport.com/Consumer/Default.asp?lc=1033.

Respondent  also  disseminated  or  caused  to  be  disseminated  various  versions  of  a  “Microsoft  .NET
10.
Passport Q&A” on Passport.com, including but not necessarily limited to that attached as Exhibit A, containing
the following statements:

What is Microsoft .NET Passport and what can I do with it?

Page 2 of  5

* * *

With a .NET Passport, you can:

* * *

Make faster, more secure online purchases with .NET Passport express purchase.

Exhibit A, Microsoft .NET Passport Q&A, http://www.passport.com/Consumer/ ConsumerQA.asp?lc.

11. 
Through  the  means  described  in  paragraphs  9  and  10,  respondent  represented,  expressly  or by
implication, that purchases  made at a Passport Express Purchase site with Passport Wallet are safer or more
secure than purchases  made at the same Passport Express Purchase site without using the Passport Wallet.

In  truth  and  in  fact,  purchases   made  at  a  Passport  Express  Purchase  site  with  Passport  Wallet  are
12. 
not, for most consumers, safer or more secure than purchases made at the same Passport Express Purchase
site without using the Passport Wallet.  Most consumers making credit card purchases at a Passport Express
Purchase  site  receive  identical  security  whether  they  use  Passport  Wallet  to  complete  a  transaction  or
purchase  directly  from  the  Passport  Express  Purchase  site  without  using  a  Passport  Wallet.    Therefore,  the
representations set forth in paragraph 11 were false or misleading.

Passport Privacy - Data Collection

Respondent has  disseminated or caused to be disseminated various  privacy policies  on Passport.com,

13.
including but not limited to the attached Exhibit C, which contains the following statements:

This  Privacy  Statement  discloses   the  privacy  practices  for  the  .NET  Passport  Web  Site  and  .NET

Passport  Services  in  accordance  with  the  requirements   of  the  TRUSTe  Privacy  Program.  When  you
visit  a  web  site  displaying  the  TRUSTe  trademark,  you  can  expect  to  be  notified  of  [w]hat  personally
identifiable information of yours is collected. . . .

E x h i b i t   C ,   M i c r o s o f t  
PrivacyPolicy.asp?lc=1033.

. N E T   P a s s p o r t   P r i v a c y   P o l i c y ,   h t t p : / / w w w . p a s s p o r t . c o m / C o n s u m e r /

14.
This  privacy  statement  also  described  in  detail  the  information  collected  from  or  about  consumers  in
connection  with  their  use  of  the  Passport,  including,  but  not  limited  to:  what  information  is  collected  by
Passport  when  a  consumer  registers   at  the  Passport.com   site;  what  information  is  collected  by  Passport  and
by a participating site when a consumer registers for Passport through that participating site; what information
is  collected  by  participating  sites  when  a  consumer  signs  in  with  a  Passport;  “operational”  information
generated  in  connection  with  a  Passport  account;  the  association  of  a  unique  identification  number  with  every
Passport  account;  and  the  collection  of  sign-in  and  other  information  in  temporary  cookies  that  are  deleted
when the consumer signs out of Passport. 

Through  the  means   described  in  paragraphs   13-14,  respondent  represented,  expressly  or  by
15.
implication, that Passport did not collect any personally identifiable information other than that described in its
privacy policy.

16.
In  truth  and  in  fact,  Passport  did  collect  personally  identifiable  information  other  than  that  described
in its privacy policy.  In particular, Passport collected, and maintained for a limited period of time, a personally

Page 3 of  5

identifiable  record  of  the  sites   to  which  a  Passport  user  signed  in,  along  with  the  dates  and  times   of  sign  in,
which  customer  service  representatives  linked  to  a  user’s  name  in  order  to  respond  to  a  user’s  request  for
service.  Therefore, the representation set forth in paragraph 15 was false or misleading.

Kids Passport

Respondent  has   promoted  its  Kids  Passport  service  as  an  online  service  that  assists  parents  in

17.
protecting their children’s online privacy.

Since  the  introduction  of  Kids  Passport  in  April  2000,  respondent  has  disseminated  or  caused  to  be

18.
disseminated  various  Kids  Passport  web  pages   and  privacy  policies,  including  but  not  necessarily  limited  to
the attached Exhibits D and E, which contain the following statements: 

A.

Welcome to Kids Passport
Helping parents protect their children’s privacy online
. . .

Learn about the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act
Discover how Passport Kids is helping parents to keep their children’s identity safe online.
. . .

Microsoft Kids Passport is a free service that helps  you conveniently protect and control your
children’s   online  privacy.  .  .  With  Kids  Passport,  you  can  grant  or  deny  consent  to
participation  (sic)  web  sites   (including  the  Microsoft  family  of  web  sites)  to  collect  personal
information from your children.  In addition, you can make specific choices for each child and
for each site, all in one convenient, centralized location.

Exhibit D, Kids Passport web pages, http://kids.passport.com.

B.

Microsoft Kids Passport Privacy Statement

Microsoft  is  especially  concerned  about  the  safety  and  protection  of  children’s   personal
information  collected  and  used  online.    Microsoft  Kids  Passport  (“Kids  Passport”)  allows
parents  to  consent  to  the  collection,  use  and  sharing  of  their  children’s  information  with
Passport  participating  sites   and  services  that  have  agreed  to  use  Kids  Passport  as  their
parental consent process.
. . .

USE OF CHILDREN’S PERSONAL INFORMATION BY PASSPORT
. . .
Passport  does   not  share  this  information  contained  in  your  child’s   Passport  profile  with  third
parties, except for Passport participating sites where you have consented to such sharing, or
as otherwise disclosed in this statement.

. . .
CONTROL OF CHILDREN’S PERSONAL INFORMATION
Kids Passport allow you to limit the amount of information shared with the sites and services
participating in the Kids Passport program.  You can choose to allow Passport to share all of
the  information  in  your  child’s  Passport  profile  with  a  participating  site  or  service,  or  you  can
limit the information shared to just a unique identifier or age range.
. . . 

Page 4 of  5

 
Exhibit  E,  Microsoft  Kids  Passport  Privacy  Statement,  http://www.passport.com/
consumer/privacy/policy.asp/PPIcid=1033.

Through  the  means   described  in  Paragraph  18,  respondent  represented,  expressly  or  by  implication,
19.
that the Kids Passport service provided parents with control over the information their children could provide to
participating Passport sites and the use of that information by such sites . 

In truth and in fact, the Kids Passport service did not provide parents with control over the information
20.
their  children  could  provide  to  participating  Passport  sites  and  the  use  of  that  information  by  such  sites.    For
instance,  once  a  parent  set  up  a  child’s   Passport  account  and  provided  consent  for  the  collection  and/or
disclosure  of  the  types  of  personal  information  lis ted  in  respondent’s  privacy  policy,  respondent  permitted  the
child  to  edit  or  change  certain  fields  of  personal  information  and  change  account  settings  set  by  the  parent. 
Respondent  also  failed  to  clearly  inform  parents  that  in  some  instances   information  would  be  disclosed  to
Passport  Web  sites  that  do  not  participate  in  the  Kids  Passport  service.      Therefore,  the  representations  set
forth in paragraph 19 were false or misleading.

21.
or practices in or affecting commerce in violation of Section 5(a) of the Federal Trade Commission Act.

The acts and practices of respondent as alleged in this complaint constituted unfair or deceptive acts

THEREFORE, the Federal Trade Commission this twentieth day of December, 2002, has issued this complaint
against respondent.

By the Commission.

Donald S. Clark
Secretary

Page 5 of  5

 
