022 3260

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION

In the Matter of

GUESS?, INC., 
a corporation,

and 

)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)

DOCKET NO. C-4091

GUESS.COM, INC.,
a corporation. 
)
                                                            )

)

COMPLAINT

The Federal Trade Commission, having reason to believe that Guess?, Inc., a corporation, and

Guess.com, inc., a corporation, (“Respondents”) have violated the provisions of the Federal Trade
Commission Act, and it appearing to the Commission that this proceeding is in the public interest,
alleges:

1. Respondent Guess?, Inc. is a Delaware corporation with its principal office or place of business

at 1444 S. Alameda Street, Los Angeles, California 90021.  Respondent Guess.com, inc. is a
Delaware corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Respondent Guess?, Inc.  Its principal
office or place of business is at 1444 S. Alameda Street, Los Angeles, California 90021.

2. Respondent Guess?, Inc. designs and produces, or licenses others to produce, men’s, women’s,

and children’s clothing and accessory products.  These products are marketed, distributed and
sold under various Guess? brand names through its own stores, independent retailers, and
www.guess.com, a website owned and operated by Respondent Guess.com, inc.

3. The acts and practices of Respondents alleged in this complaint have been in or affecting
commerce, as “commerce” is defined in Section 4 of the Federal Trade Commission Act.

4. Respondents have marketed and sold Guess-branded clothing and accessory products to

consumers online at www.guess.com since June 1998.  In order to make purchases from the
website, consumers must pay using a credit or debit card.  To complete these transactions,

Page 1 of  4

                                                          
consumers must provide personal information, including, but not limited to, name, address, and
credit or debit card number and expiration date.  Respondents store this information in particular
locations (called “tables”) within databases that support or connect to the website.  For
example,  the credit card numbers received from purchasers on the website are stored in a single
database table.  Respondents also store product information, such as the sizes and colors in
which a shirt is available, in other tables contained within the same databases.

5. Like most e-commerce websites, visitors interact with Respondents' website using a software
program called an "application."  Respondents' application was designed so that a visitor could
use it to obtain product information from certain database tables, as well as to supply transaction
information that was then stored in other tables in the databases.  To facilitate communications
between the website and a visitor, the application was designed to automatically present in clear
readable text any information retrieved from or supplied to the databases.

6. Since June 1998, Respondents have disseminated or caused to be disseminated privacy policies

on www.guess.com, including but not necessarily limited to that attached as Exhibit A,
containing the following statements: 

Privacy Policy

At GUESS.com, we are committed to protecting your privacy.  We firmly believe that
electronic security and privacy are necessary for the continued success of the Internet.  In support
of this, we only use the personal information that you provide to create a more personalized and
entertaining experience for you, in accordance with the terms outlined below. 

* * *
Security

This site has security measures in place to protect the loss, misuse and alteration of the information
under our control.  All orders are transmitted over secure Internet connections using SSL (Secure
Sockets Layer) encryption technology.  All of your personal information including your credit card
information and sign-in password are stored in an unreadable, encrypted format at all times.  This
Website and more importantly all user information, is further protected by a multi-layer firewall
based security system.  

Exhibit A: GUESS.com Privacy Policy, http://www.guess.com/section.asp?section=privacy
(emphasis in original).

7. Respondents have disseminated or caused to be disseminated Frequently Asked Questions on

Page 2 of  4

 
www.guess.com, including but not necessarily limited to that attached as Exhibit B, containing
the following statements: 

Q: What is the Information Security Policy for GUESS? Online?
A: Providing a safe and secure environment for your order information is our top priority.  Taking
advantage of Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) technology, GUESS? ensures the security of your
online transaction.  The GUESS? Online Store is powered by Microsoft and Verisign and uses
Cybersource SSL technology - the industry standard for encryption technology to create a secure
transaction environment for commerce on the Internet.  SSL technology encrypts files allowing
only GUESS? to decode your information.

Exhibit B: About Guess?, http://www.guess.com/section.asp?section=help (emphasis in original).   

8. Since at least October 2000,  Respondents’ application and website have been vulnerable to

commonly known or reasonably foreseeable attacks from third parties attempting to obtain
access to customer information stored in Respondents’ databases.  These attacks include, but
are not limited to, web-based application attacks such as “Structured Query Language”
(“SQL”) injection attacks.  Such attacks occur when an attacker enters certain characters in the
address (or URL) bar of a standard web browser to direct the application to obtain information
from the databases that support or connect to the website.  Through such an attack, the
application could be manipulated to gain access, in clear text, to every table in the
www.guess.com databases, including the tables containing the credit card information supplied
by purchasers.    

9. Respondents created these vulnerabilities by failing to implement reasonable and appropriate

measures to secure and protect the databases that support or connect to the website.  Among
other things, Respondents failed to: adopt policies and procedures adequate to protect sensitive
consumer information collected though the website; test or otherwise assess the website’s or the
application’s vulnerability to attacks; and implement reasonable measures to prevent website
visitors from gaining access to database tables containing sensitive personal information about
other consumers.

10. The risk of web-based application attacks is commonly known in the information technology
industry, as are simple, publicly available measures to prevent such attacks.  Security experts
have been warning the industry about these vulnerabilities since at least 1997; in 1998, at least
one security organization developed, and made available to the public at no charge, security
measures which could prevent such attacks; and in 2000, the industry began receiving reports of
successful attacks on web-based applications. 

11. In February, 2002, a visitor to the website, using an SQL injection attack, was able to read in

clear text credit card numbers stored in Respondents’ databases. 

Page 3 of  4

12. Through the means described in Paragraphs 6 and 7, Respondents have represented, expressly

or by implication, that the personal information they obtained from consumers through
www.guess.com was stored in an unreadable, encrypted format at all times. 

13. In truth and in fact, the personal information Respondents obtained from consumers through
www.guess.com was not stored in an unreadable, encrypted format at all times.  Using a
standard web browser, a commonly known attack could be employed to manipulate the web
application and gain access, in clear readable text, to sensitive personal information about other
consumers, including but not limited to, consumer names and credit card numbers and expiration
dates.  Therefore, the representation set forth in Paragraph 12 was false or misleading. 

14. Through the means described in Paragraphs 6 and 7, Respondents have represented, expressly
or by implication, that they implemented reasonable and appropriate measures to protect the
personal information they obtained from consumers through www.guess.com against loss,
misuse, or alteration.  

15. In truth and in fact, Respondents did not implement reasonable and appropriate measures to

protect the personal information they obtained from consumers through www.guess.com against
loss, misuse, or alteration.  In particular, Respondents failed to implement procedures that were
reasonable and appropriate to: (1) detect reasonably foreseeable vulnerabilities of their website
and application and (2) prevent visitors to the website from exploiting such vulnerabilities and
gaining access to sensitive consumer data.  Therefore, the representation set forth in Paragraph
14 was false or misleading. 

16. The acts and practices of Respondents as alleged in this complaint constitute unfair or deceptive
acts or practices in or affecting commerce in violation of Section 5(a) of the Federal Trade
Commission Act.

THEREFORE, the Federal Trade Commission this thirtieth day of July, 2003, has issued this complaint
against Respondents.

By the Commission.

Donald S. Clark
Secretary

Page 4 of  4

