UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION

032-3209

COMMISSIONERS: 

Timothy J. Muris, Chairman
Mozelle W. Thompson
Orson Swindle
Thomas B. Leary
Pamela Jones Harbour

In the Matter of

MTS, INC., d/b/a TOWER 
RECORDS/BOOKS/VIDEO,
a corporation,

)
)
)
)
)
)
) 
)
)
)
TOWER DIRECT, LLC, d/b/a
)
TOWERRECORDS.COM,
a corporation.
)
                                                            )

and

DOCKET NO.  C-4110

COMPLAINT

The Federal Trade Commission, having reason to believe that MTS, Inc., and Tower
Direct, LLC, corporations (“Respondents”) have violated the provisions of the Federal Trade
Commission Act, and it appearing to the Commission that this proceeding is in the public
interest, alleges:

1.

2.

3.

Respondent MTS, Inc., is a California corporation doing business as Tower
Records/Books/Video with its principal office or place of business at 2500 Del Monte,
West Sacramento, California 95691.  

Respondent Tower Direct, LLC, is a Delaware limited liability company doing business
as TowerRecords.com and is a subsidiary of Respondent MTS, Inc.  Its principal office or
place of business is also at 2500 Del Monte, West Sacramento, California 95691.  

On February 9, 2004, Respondents and related entities filed voluntary petitions for relief
under the reorganization provisions of Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, Title 11
U.S.C. 101 et seq., in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware,
Case Nos. 04-10393-PJW through 04-10398-PJW, 04-10400-PJW, and 04-10403-PJW

Page 1 of  4

                                                            
through 04-10410-PJW.  On February 10, 2004, the bankruptcy cases were consolidated
for administration, and a confirmation hearing was set for March 15, 2004.  Pursuant to
11 U.S.C. §§ 1106 and 1107, the Respondents remain in possession of their business and
property as debtors-in-possession.

The acts and practices of respondents as alleged in this complaint have been in or
affecting commerce, as “commerce” is defined in Section 4 of the Federal Trade
Commission Act.

Respondents have marketed and sold music and video recordings, books, and other
entertainment products through the Internet at their Web site, www.TowerRecords.com
(the “Tower Web site”) since at least 1996.  Respondents collect personal information
from consumers who visit the Tower Web site and purchase Tower products online.  This
personal information includes name, billing address, shipping address, email address,
telephone number, and all Tower products purchased online – such as music and video
recordings, books, and other entertainment products – since 1996.  

Consumers who purchase products on the Tower Web site are assigned an order number
and interact with Respondents’ Web site using a software program called an
“application.”  One of these applications is the Order Status application, which allows
consumers to use their order number to view their purchase history. 

Since at least 1997, Respondents have disseminated or have caused to be disseminated
various privacy policies on the Tower Web site, including but not necessarily limited to
the attached Exhibit A, containing the following statements regarding the privacy and
confidentiality of personal information collected through Respondents’ Web site:

4.

5.

6.

7.

Security & Privacy Information

*    *    *   

Your privacy is important to us.  TowerRecords.com is committed
to safeguarding your privacy online.  We will never share your
personal information with anyone for any reason without your
explicit permission.

*    *    *   

How does TowerRecords.com protect my personal information?
We use state-of-the-art technology to safeguard your personal
information.  All TowerRecords.com employees are required to
acknowledge that they understand and will comply with this
privacy policy.  Employees who violate this policy will be
subjected to disciplinary action, up to and including termination.  

Page 2 of  4

*    *    *   

What security precautions are in place to protect the loss,
misuse, or alteration of my information?
Your TowerRecords.com Account information is password-protected. 
You and only you have access to this information . . . TowerRecords.com
takes steps to ensure that your information is treated securely and in
accordance with the relevant Terms of Service and this Privacy Policy. 
Unfortunately, no data transmission over the Internet can be guaranteed
100% secure.  While we strive to protect your personal information,
TowerRecords.com cannot ensure or warrant the security or services, and
you do so at your own risk.  Once we receive your transmission, we make
our best effort to ensure its security on our systems.

8.

9.

Exhibit A, Tower Web Site Privacy Policy, December 2002 (emphasis in original).

In November and December 2002, Respondents redesigned the “check out” portion of
their Web site and rewrote the software code for the Order Status application.  In
rewriting the code, Respondents failed to ensure that all of the code from the original
version had been rewritten and included, as appropriate, in the new version.  As a result, 
the rewritten version of the Order Status application failed to include any  “authentication
code” to ensure that the consumer viewing purchase history information was the
consumer to whom such information related.  The rewritten code generated an email to
consumers confirming their order and providing a URL that they could use to check the
status of their order online (the “Order Status URL”).  The Order Status URL contained
the order number in clear text.  

The omission of authentication code and the inclusion of the order number in the Order
Status URL created a commonly known and reasonably foreseeable vulnerability in the
Order Status application often referred to as “broken account and session management.” 
Any visitor to the Tower Web site who entered a valid order number in the Order Status
URL could view certain personal information relating to other Tower consumers,
specifically, the consumer’s name, billing and shipping addresses, email address, phone
number, whether the product purchased was a gift, and all Tower products purchased
online.  The vulnerability lasted for eight days and was exploited by a number of visitors
to the site.  In December 2002, personal information relating to approximately 5,225
consumers was accessed by unauthorized users, and at least two Internet chat rooms
contained postings about the vulnerability as well as comments about some consumers’
purchases. 

10.

Respondents created this vulnerability by failing to implement procedures that were
reasonable and appropriate to detect and prevent vulnerabilities in their Web site and
applications, including reasonable and appropriate procedures for writing and revising

Page 3 of  4

11.

12.

13.

Web-application code.  Among other things, Respondents failed to:  implement
appropriate checks and controls on the process of writing and revising Web applications;
adopt and implement policies and procedures regarding security tests for its Web
applications; and provide appropriate training and oversight for their employees
regarding Web application vulnerabilities and security testing.

The security risks associated with broken account and session management are widely
known in the information technology industry, as are simple, publicly available measures
to prevent such vulnerabilities.  Security experts have been warning the industry about
these vulnerabilities since at least 2000, when at least one security organization also
developed and made freely available security education materials which could alert
industry about how to prevent such vulnerabilities.  

Through the means described in Paragraph 7, Respondents have represented, expressly or
by implication, that they implemented measures reasonable and appropriate under the
circumstances to maintain and protect the privacy and confidentiality of personal
information obtained from or about consumers through the Tower Web site.  

In truth and in fact, Respondents did not implement measures reasonable and appropriate 
under the circumstances to maintain and protect the privacy and confidentiality of
personal information obtained from or about consumers through the Tower Web site.  In
particular, as set forth in Paragraph 10, Respondents failed to implement procedures that
were reasonable and appropriate to detect and prevent vulnerabilities in their Web site
and applications, including reasonable and appropriate procedures for writing and
revising Web-application code.  Therefore, the representation set forth in Paragraph 12
was false or misleading.

14.

The acts and practices of Respondents as alleged in this complaint constitute unfair or
deceptive acts or practices in or affecting commerce in violation of Section 5(a) of the
Federal Trade Commission Act.  

THEREFORE, the Federal Trade Commission, on this twenty-eighth day of May, 2004,

has issued this complaint against Respondents.

By the Commission.

Donald S. Clark
Secretary

Page 4 of  4

