COMMISSIONERS:

0323221

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION

Deborah Platt Majoras, Chairman
Orson Swindle
Thomas B. Leary
Pamela Jones Harbour
Jon Leibowitz

In the Matter of

     )
     )
     )
PETCO ANIMAL SUPPLIES, INC.,  )
a corporation.
     )
                                                                 )

DOCKET NO. C-4133

COMPLAINT

The Federal Trade Commission, having reason to believe that Petco Animal Supplies,

Inc. (“respondent”) has violated the provisions of the Federal Trade Commission Act, and it
appearing to the Commission that this proceeding is in the public interest, alleges:

1.

2.

3.

4.

Respondent Petco Animal Supplies, Inc. is a Delaware corporation with its principal
office or place of business at 9125 Rehco Road, San Diego, California 29121. 

Respondent sells pet food, supplies, and services through more than 636 stores in 43
states and the District of Columbia.  It also sells pet food and supplies through its website
at www.PETCO.com.  

The acts and practices of respondent as alleged in this complaint have been in or
affecting commerce, as “commerce” is defined in Section 4 of the Federal Trade
Commission Act.

Respondent has marketed and sold pet food and supplies to consumers online at
www.PETCO.com since February 5, 2001.  Most consumers who make purchases
through www.PETCO.com pay using a credit card.  To complete these purchases,
consumers must provide personal information, including, but not limited to, name,
address, and credit card number and expiration date.  Respondent stores this information
in particular locations (called “tables”) in a database that supports or connects to its
website.  Respondent also stores product information about pet food and supplies in a
database that supports or connects to its website.

Page 1 of  4

                                                                 
5.

6.

Visitors to www.PETCO.com communicate with the website using a software program
called a “web application.”  Respondent’s application was designed so that visitors could
use it to: (1) obtain product information from certain database tables, and (2) supply
respondent with transaction information, such as credit card numbers and expiration
dates, that respondent then stored in other tables in a database.  To facilitate
communication between the website and a visitor, respondent’s application was designed
to automatically present any information retrieved from or supplied to a database in clear
readable text on the visitor’s web browser. 

Since at least February 5, 2001, respondent has disseminated or caused to be
disseminated privacy policies and representations on www.PETCO.com, including, but
not necessarily limited to, the attached Exhibit A containing the following statements
regarding the privacy and confidentiality of personal information collected through
respondent’s website:

Privacy Concerns and Issues

Your information is secure
At PETCO.com our customers’ data is strictly protected against any unauthorized
access.  PETCO.com also provides a “100% Safeguard Your Shopping
Experience Guarantee” so you never have to worry about the safety of your credit
card information.

Payment Options

PETCO.com accepts the following credit cards: Visa, MasterCard, American
Express, and Discover.  PETCO.com also redeems PETCO.com online gift
certificates and PETCO gift cards as payment for purchases made at PETCO.com. 
We are unable to accept checks or money orders at this time.

Entering your credit card number via our secure server is completely safe.  The
server encrypts all of your information; no one except you can access it.  

Is my personal information secure?

At PETCO.com, protecting your information is our number one priority, and your
personal data is strictly shielded from unauthorized access.  Our “100% Safeguard
Your Shopping Experience Guarantee” means you never have to worry about the
safety of your credit card information. 

Exhibit A (Petco webpages dated June 21, 2003)(emphasis in original) 

Page 2 of  4

 
7.

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

Since at least February 5, 2001, respondent’s website and application have been
vulnerable to commonly known or reasonably foreseeable attacks from third parties
attempting to obtain access to personal information about consumers stored in
respondent’s database.  These attacks include, but are not limited to, web application
attacks such as “Structured Query Language” (or “SQL”) injection attacks.  Such an
attack occurs when an attacker enters certain characters in the address (or URL) bar of a
standard web browser to direct an application to obtain information from a database that
supports or connects to a website.  By such an attack, respondent’s application can be
manipulated to gain access, in clear readable text, to tables in databases that support or
connect to www.PETCO.com, including tables containing credit card information
supplied by consumers.

Respondent created these vulnerabilities by failing to implement reasonable and
appropriate measures to secure and protect databases that support or connect to the
website.  Among other things, respondent failed to: adopt policies and procedures
adequate to protect sensitive consumer information collected through the website; or
implement simple, readily available defenses to prevent website visitors from gaining
access to database tables containing sensitive personal information about other
consumers. 

The risk of such web application attacks is well known in the information technology
industry, as are simple, easy to implement, and publicly available measures to prevent
such attacks.  Security experts have been warning the industry about these vulnerabilities
since at least 1997; in 1998, at least one security organization developed, and made
publicly available at no charge, a security measure that could prevent such attacks, and in
2000 the industry began receiving reports of successful attacks on web applications. 

In June 2003, a visitor to www.PETCO.com conducted an SQL injection attack and was
able to read in clear text credit card numbers stored in respondent’s database.

Through the means described in Paragraph 6, respondent represented, expressly or by
implication, that the personal information it obtained from consumers through
www.PETCO.com was maintained in an encrypted format and therefore was inaccessible
to anyone other than the consumer providing the information. 

In truth and in fact, the personal information respondent obtained from consumers
through www.PETCO.com was not maintained in an encrypted format and was
accessible to persons other than the consumer providing the information.  Instead, Petco
encrypted credit card information only while it was being transmitted between a visitor’s
web browser and the website’s server; once the information reached the server, it was
decrypted and maintained in clear readable text.  Using a standard web browser, a visitor
could (and did) use a commonly known attack to manipulate respondent’s web
application and obtain access, in clear readable text, to sensitive personal information
about other consumers, including, but not limited to, consumer names and credit card

Page 3 of  4

numbers and expiration dates.  Therefore, the representation set forth in Paragraph 11
was false or misleading.

13.

14.

Through the means described in Paragraph 6, respondent represented, expressly or by
implication, that it implemented reasonable and appropriate measures to protect personal
information it obtained from consumers through www.PETCO.com against unauthorized
access.

In truth and in fact, respondent did not implement reasonable and appropriate measures to
protect personal information it obtained from consumers through www.PETCO.com
against unauthorized access.  In particular, respondent failed to implement procedures
that were reasonable and appropriate to: (1) detect reasonably foreseeable application
vulnerabilities, and (2) prevent visitors from exploiting such vulnerabilities and obtaining
unauthorized access to sensitive consumer information.  Therefore, the representation set
forth in Paragraph 13 was false or misleading.

15.

The acts and practices of respondent as alleged in this complaint constitute unfair or
deceptive acts or practices in or affecting commerce in violation of Section 5(a) of the
Federal Trade Commission Act. 

THEREFORE, the Federal Trade Commission this fourth day of March, 2005, has issued

this complaint against respondent.

By the Commission

Donald S. Clark
Secretary

Page 4 of  4

