COMMISSIONERS:	

052 3096 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION 

Deborah Platt Majoras, Chairman 
Pamela Jones Harbour 
Jon Leibowitz 
William E. Kovacic 
J. Thomas Rosch 

In the Matter of 

DSW Inc., 
a corporation. 

) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 

DOCKET NO. C-4157 

COMPLAINT 

The Federal Trade Commission, having reason to believe that DSW Inc. (“respondent”) 

has violated the provisions of the Federal Trade Commission Act, and it appearing to the 
Commission that this proceeding is in the public interest, alleges: 

1.	

2.	

3.	

4.	

Respondent DSW Inc. is an Ohio corporation with its principal office or place of business 
at 4150 East 5th Avenue, Columbus, Ohio 43219. 

The acts and practices of respondent as alleged in this complaint have been in or affecting 
commerce, as “commerce” is defined in Section 4 of the Federal Trade Commission Act. 

Respondent sells footwear for men and women at approximately 190 stores in 32 states. 
Consumers pay for their purchases with cash, credit cards, debit cards, and personal 
checks. 

For credit card, debit card, and check purchases at its stores, respondent uses computer 
networks to request and obtain authorization for the purchase.  To obtain card 
authorization, respondent collects information from consumers, including name, card 
number and expiration date, and certain other information.  To obtain approval for 
payments by check, respondent collects the routing number, account number, check 
number, and the consumer’s driver’s license number and state (collectively, “personal 
information”). 

Page 1 of  3 

5.	

6.	

7.	

8.	

9.	

For a credit or debit card purchase, respondent typically collects the information from the 
magnetic stripe of the credit or debit card.  The information collected from the magnetic 
stripe includes, among other things, a security code used to verify electronically that the 
card is genuine.   This code is particularly sensitive because it can be used to create 
counterfeit credit and debit cards that appear genuine in the authorization process.  For 
purchases using a check, respondent typically collects information from the check using 
Magnetic Ink Character Recognition (“MICR”) technology.  In each case, respondent 
collects the information at the cash register and wirelessly transmits the information, 
formatted as an authorization request, to a computer network located in the store (“in­
store computer network”).  The authorization request is then transmitted to the 
appropriate bank or check processor, which sends a response back to respondent through 
the same networks.  Until at least March 2005, respondent stored personal information 
used to obtain credit card, debit card, and check authorizations, including magnetic stripe 
data, on in-store and corporate computer networks. 

Respondent operates wireless access points through which the cash registers connect to 
the in-store computer networks.  Other wireless access points are used to transmit 
information about respondent’s inventory from in-store scanners to the in-store computer 
networks. 

Until at least March 2005, respondent engaged in a number of practices that, taken 
together, failed to provide reasonable and appropriate security for personal information 
collected at its stores.  Among other things, respondent (1) created unnecessary risks to 
the information by storing it in multiple files when it no longer had a business need to 
keep the information; (2) did not use readily available security measures to limit access to 
its computer networks through wireless access points on the networks; (3) stored the 
information in unencrypted files that could be accessed easily by using a commonly 
known user ID and password; (4) did not limit sufficiently the ability of computers on one 
in-store network to connect to computers on other in-store and corporate networks; and 
(5) failed to employ sufficient measures to detect unauthorized access.  As a result, a 
hacker could use the wireless access points on one in-store computer network to connect 
to, and access personal information on, the other in-store and corporate networks.   

In March 2005, respondent issued a press release stating that credit card and other 
purchase information stored on its computer networks had been stolen.  In April 2005, 
respondent issued another press release listing the locations of 108 stores that were 
affected by the breach, and stating that checking account and driver’s license numbers 
also had been subject to the breach.  In April 2005, respondent also began sending 
notification letters to customers for whom it had or obtained addresses. 

The breach compromised a total of approximately 1,438,281 credit and debit cards (but 
not the personal identification numbers associated with the debit cards), along with 
96,385 checking accounts and driver’s license numbers.  To date, there have been 
fraudulent charges on some of these accounts.  Further, some customers whose checking 

Page 2 of  3 

 
account information was compromised were advised to close their accounts, thereby 
losing access to those accounts, and have incurred out-of-pocket expenses such as the 
cost of ordering new checks.  Some of these checking account customers have contacted 
DSW requesting reimbursement for their out-of-pocket expenses, and DSW has provided 
some amount of reimbursement to these customers. 

As described in Paragraph 7 above, respondent’s failure to employ reasonable and 
appropriate security measures to protect personal information and files caused or is likely 
to cause substantial injury to consumers that is not offset by countervailing benefits to 
consumers or competition and is not reasonably avoidable by consumers.  This practice 
was and is an unfair act or practice. 

The acts and practices of respondent as alleged in this complaint constitute unfair acts or 
practices in or affecting commerce in violation of Section 5(a) of the Federal Trade 
Commission Act, 15 U.S.C. § 45(a). 

10.	

11.	

THEREFORE, the Federal Trade Commission this seventh day of March, 2006, has 

issued this complaint against respondent. 

By the Commission. 

SEAL 

Donald S. Clark 
Secretary 

Page 3 of  3 

