UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION

082 3113

COMMISSIONERS:

Jon Leibowitz, Chairman
Pamela Jones Harbour
William E. Kovacic
J. Thomas Rosch

In the Matter of

GENICA CORPORATION,
a corporation,

)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
COMPGEEKS.COM also doing business as
)
COMPUTER GEEKS DISCOUNT OUTLET
)
and GEEKS.COM,
a corporation.
)
                                                                                    )

and

DOCKET NO. C-4252

COMPLAINT

The Federal Trade Commission, having reason to believe that Genica Corporation and

Compgeeks.com also doing business as Computer Geeks Discount Outlet and geeks.com
(“respondents”) have violated the provisions of the Federal Trade Commission Act, and it
appearing to the Commission that this proceeding is in the public interest, alleges:

1.

2.

3.

Respondent Genica Corporation (“Genica”) is a Delaware corporation with its principal
office or place of business at 1890 Ord Way, Oceanside, California 92056.

Respondent Compgeeks.com also doing business as Computer Geeks Discount Outlet
and geeks.com (“Compgeeks.com”) is a California corporation with its principal office or
place of business at 1890 Ord Way, Oceanside, California 92056.  Compgeeks.com is a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Genica, and Genica controlled the acts and practices of
Compgeeks.com at issue in this complaint.

The acts and practices of respondents as alleged in this complaint have been in or
affecting commerce, as “commerce” is defined in Section 4 of the Federal Trade
Commission Act.

1

                                                                                    
4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

Respondents are in the business of selling computer systems, peripherals, and consumer
electronics to consumers over the internet, including through a website (www.geeks.com)
operated by respondent Compgeeks.com.  

Respondents operate a computer network that consumers use, in conjunction with the
www.geeks.com website and web application, to obtain information and to buy their
products.  

In selling products through the www.geeks.com website, respondents routinely collect
sensitive information from consumers to obtain authorization for credit card purchases,
including a first and last name, address, e-mail address, telephone number, credit card
number, credit card expiration date, and credit card security code (hereinafter “personal
information”).  Personal information collected at the website is sent to computers on
respondents’ computer network, reformatted, and sent to outside computer networks for
payment authorization.  Until at least December 2007, respondents stored information in
clear, readable text on the network on a computer accessible through the www.geeks.com
website.

Since at least October 2001, respondents have disseminated or caused to be disseminated
privacy policies and statements on the www.geeks.com website, including, but not
limited to, the following statements regarding the privacy and confidentiality of the
consumer information they collect:

The objective of the safeguarding personal information principle is
to assure you that we actively protect your privacy using a variety
of security and controls.  We use secure technology, privacy
protection controls and restrictions on employee access in order to
safeguard your personal information.  We use state of the art
technology (e.g., Secure Socket Layer, or SSL) encryption to keep
customer personal information as secure as possible.  We have also
put in place privacy protection control systems designed to ensure
that personal Customer data remains safe and private.  (Exhibit A,
current privacy policy effective 2007, and Exhibit B, former
privacy policy effective between 2001 and 2007)

Until at least December 2007, respondents engaged in a number of practices that, taken
together, failed to provide reasonable and appropriate security for the personal
information stored on their network.  Among other things, respondents: (1) stored
personal information in clear, readable text; (2) did not adequately assess the
vulnerability of their web application and network to commonly known or reasonably
foreseeable attacks, such as “Structured Query Language” (“SQL”) injection attacks; (3)
did not implement simple, free or low-cost, and readily available defenses to such
attacks; (4) did not use readily available security measures to monitor and control
connections between computers on the network and from the network to the internet; and

2

(5) failed to employ reasonable measures to detect and prevent unauthorized access to
personal information, such as by logging or employing an intrusion detection system. 

Since at least January 2007 and continuing through at least June 2007, hackers repeatedly
exploited the failures set forth in Paragraph 8 by using SQL injection attacks on the
www.geeks.com website and web application.  Through these attacks, the hackers found
personal information stored on respondents’ network and exported the information of
hundreds of customers, including credit card numbers, expiration dates, and security
codes, over the internet to outside computers.

Respondents became aware of the breach in December 2007, at which time they took
steps to prevent further unauthorized access and to notify law enforcement and affected
consumers.

Through the means described in Paragraph 7, respondents represented, expressly or by
implication, that they implemented reasonable and appropriate measures to protect
personal information against unauthorized access.

In truth and in fact, respondents did not implement reasonable and appropriate measures
to protect personal information against unauthorized access.  Therefore, the
representation set forth in Paragraph 11 was, and is, false or misleading.

The acts and practices of respondents as alleged in this complaint constitute deceptive
acts or practices in or affecting commerce in violation of Section 5(a) of the Federal
Trade Commission Act.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

THEREFORE, the Federal Trade Commission this sixteenth day of March, 2009, has

issued this complaint against respondents.

By the Commission.

SEAL

Donald S. Clark
Secretary

3

