UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION

082 3153

COMMISSIONERS:

Jon Leibowitz, Chairman
William E. Kovacic
J. Thomas Rosch
Edith Ramirez
Julie Brill

In the Matter of

)
)
)
)
DAVE & BUSTER’S, INC.,
a corporation.
)
                                                            )

DOCKET NO. C-4291

COMPLAINT

The Federal Trade Commission, having reason to believe that Dave and Buster’s, Inc.

(“respondent”) has violated the provisions of the Federal Trade Commission Act, and it
appearing to the Commission that this proceeding is in the public interest, alleges:

1.

2.

3.

4.

Respondent Dave & Buster’s, Inc. is a Missouri corporation with its principal office or
place of business at 2481 Manana Drive, Dallas, Texas 75220.

The acts and practices of respondent as alleged in this complaint have been in or
affecting commerce, as “commerce” is defined in Section 4 of the Federal Trade
Commission Act.

Respondent owns and operates 53 restaurant/entertainment complexes in the United
States under the names Dave & Buster’s, Dave & Buster’s Grand Sports Café, and
Jillian’s.  Consumers pay for purchases at these stores with credit and debit cards
(collectively, “payment cards”), or cash.    

Respondent operates networks in each store (“in-store networks”) as well as a corporate
computer network (collectively, “networks”).  These networks link corporate
headquarters in the United States with each store, and, among other things, are used to
process sales transactions.

                                                            
5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

In conducting its business, respondent routinely collects information from consumers to
obtain authorization for payment card purchases.  Among other things, it collects: the
credit card account number, expiration date, and an electronic security code for payment
card authorization (collectively, “personal information”).  This information is particularly
sensitive because it can be used to facilitate payment card fraud and other consumer
harm.

To obtain payment card authorization, respondent collects personal information at its
various in-store terminals, transfers the data to its in-store servers, and then transmits the
data to a third-party credit card processing company.

In collecting and processing sensitive personal information, respondent engaged in a
number of practices that, taken together, failed to provide reasonable and appropriate
security for personal information on its networks.  In particular, respondent:  

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

failed to employ sufficient measures to detect and prevent unauthorized access to
computer networks or to conduct security investigations, such as by employing an
intrusion detection system and monitoring system logs; 

failed to adequately restrict third-party access to its networks, such as by
restricting connections to specified IP addresses or granting temporary, limited
access; 

failed to monitor and filter outbound traffic from its networks to identify and
block export of sensitive personal information without authorization;

failed to use readily available security measures to limit access between in-store
networks, such as by employing firewalls or isolating the payment card system
from the rest of the corporate network; and

failed to use readily available security measures to limit access to its computer
networks through wireless access points on the networks.

Between April 30, 2007 and August 28, 2007 an intruder, exploiting some of the
vulnerabilities set forth in Paragraph 7, connected to respondent’s networks numerous
times without authorization, installed unauthorized software, and intercepted personal
information in transit from in-store networks to respondent’s credit card processing
company.  After learning of the breach, respondent took steps to prevent further
unauthorized access and to notify law enforcement and the credit card companies of
affected consumers.

The breach compromised approximately 130,000 unique payment cards used by
consumers in the United States.  To date, issuing banks have collectively claimed several
hundred thousand dollars in fraudulent charges on some of these implicated accounts. 

2

10.

11.

As described in Paragraphs 7 through 9, respondent’s failure to employ reasonable and
appropriate security measures to protect personal information caused or is likely to cause
substantial injury to consumers that is not offset by countervailing benefits to consumers
or competition and is not reasonably avoidable by consumers.  This practice was and is
an unfair act or practice.

The acts and practices of respondent as alleged in this complaint constitute unfair acts or
practices in or affecting commerce in violation of Section 5(a) of the Federal Trade
Commission Act, 15 U.S.C § 45(a).

THEREFORE, the Federal Trade Commission this twentieth day of May, 2010, has

issued this complaint against respondent.

By the Commission, Commissioner Ramirez not participating.

Donald S. Clark
Secretary

3

