UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION

102-3076

COMMISSIONERS:

Jon Leibowitz, Chairman
William E. Kovacic
J. Thomas Rosch
Edith Ramirez
Julie Brill

____________________________________

In the Matter of

)
)
)
)
)
)
____________________________________)

LOOKOUT SERVICES, INC.,
a corporation.

DOCKET NO. C- 4326

COMPLAINT

The Federal Trade Commission, having reason to believe that Lookout Services, Inc.

(“respondent” or “Lookout”) has violated the provisions of the Federal Trade Commission Act,
and it appearing to the Commission that this proceeding is in the public interest, alleges:

1.

2.

3.

4.

Respondent Lookout is a Texas corporation, with its principal office or place of business
at 5909 West Loop South, Suite 300, Bellaire, Texas 77401.

The acts and practices of respondent as alleged in this complaint have been in or
affecting commerce, as “commerce” is defined in Section 4 of the FTC Act, 15 U.S.C.
§ 44.  

At all relevant times, Lookout has been in the business of selling a web-based computer
product known as the I-9 Solution.  This product is designed to help employers comply
with their obligations under federal law to complete and maintain a U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services Form I-9 about each employee in order to verify that the employee
is eligible to work in the United States. 

The I-9 Solution routinely collects and stores information from or about its customers’
employees, including, but not limited to, names; addresses; dates of birth; Social Security
numbers; passport numbers; alien registration numbers; driver’s license numbers; and
military identification numbers.  This highly sensitive information is maintained in
Lookout’s database (the “I-9 database”).  The misuse of such information – particularly
Social Security numbers – can facilitate identity theft and related consumer harms.

1

5.

Since at least April 2009, Lookout has disseminated or caused to be disseminated
statements in its marketing materials, including, but not limited to, the following
statement regarding the security of data it maintains:

Secure Your Data
Although the data is entered via the web, your data will be
encoded and transmitted over secured lines to Lookout Services
server.  This FTP interface will protect your data from
interception, as well as, keep the data secure from unauthorized
access.

6.

Since at least 2006, Lookout’s website has made the following claim:

Perimeter Defense – Our servers are continuously monitoring
attempted network attacks on a 24 x 7 basis, using sophisticated 
software tools.   

7.

Since at least 2006 and continuing through at least the Fall of 2009, respondent engaged
in a number of practices that, taken together, failed to provide reasonable and appropriate
security for personal information on Lookout’s networks.  Among other things,
respondent: 

a.

b.

c.

d.

e.

f.

failed to implement reasonable policies and procedures for the security of
sensitive consumer information collected and maintained by Lookout;

failed to establish or enforce rules sufficient to make user credentials (i.e., user ID
and password) hard to guess.  For example, respondent did not require its
customers or employees to use complex passwords to access the I-9 database.
Accordingly, users could select the same word, including common dictionary
words, as both the password and user ID, or a close variant of the user ID as the
password;

failed to require periodic changes of user credentials, such as every 90 days, for
customers and employees with access to sensitive personal information; 

failed to suspend user credentials after a certain number of unsuccessful login
attempts;

did not adequately assess and address the vulnerability of Lookout’s web
application to widely-known security flaws, such as “predictable resource
location,” which enables users to easily predict patterns and manipulate the
uniform resource locators (“URLs”) to gain access to secure web pages; 

allowed users to bypass the authentication procedures on Lookout’s website when
they typed in a specific URL;

2

g.

h.

failed to employ sufficient measures to detect and prevent unauthorized access to
computer networks, such as by employing an intrusion detection system and
monitoring system logs; and 

created an unnecessary risk to personal information by storing passwords used to
access the I-9 database in clear text. 

In October 2009, and again in December 2009, Lookout’s weak authentication practices
and web application vulnerabilities enabled an employee of a Lookout customer to gain
access to the personal information of over 37,000 consumers. 

Specifically, in October 2009, the employee obtained a URL for a secure web page
during a webinar for the I-9 Solution.  She later typed that URL into her browser and
gained access to a portion of the I-9 database.  By typing the precise URL into the
browser, she bypassed the Lookout login page, and was never prompted to provide a
valid user credential.  The employee then made minimal and easy-to-guess changes to the
URL and gained access to the entire I-9 database.  

In December 2009, the employee visited Lookout’s public-facing login web page for the 
I-9 Solution where she guessed and entered several different user IDs and passwords,
including the user ID “test” and the password “test.”  Because this was a valid user
credential for one of Lookout’s customers, entering “test” and “test” gave her access to
the personal information of the more than 11,000 consumers employed by that customer. 
Then, by making minimal and easy-to-guess changes to the URL, the employee again
gained access to the entire I-9 database, which included the personal information of more
than 37,000 consumers. 

Because Lookout did not employ an intrusion detection system until October 2009, or
adequately monitor system logs until December 2009, it is unknown if other
unauthorized persons accessed the personal information in the I-9 database before that
time. 

Following the October and December 2009 breaches, Lookout took steps to prevent
additional unauthorized access to the I-9 database, including disabling the “test” account
and instituting certain code patches to its application.  In January 2010, Lookout mailed
breach notification letters to customers whose accounts the employee may have viewed.  

VIOLATIONS OF THE FTC ACT

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

Through the means described in Paragraphs 5 and 6, respondent represented, expressly or
by implication, that it implemented reasonable and appropriate measures to protect
personal information against unauthorized access.

3

14.

15.

16.

In truth and in fact, as described in Paragraph 7, respondent did not implement
reasonable and appropriate measures to protect personal information against
unauthorized access.  Therefore, the representations set forth in Paragraph 13 were, and
are, false and misleading, and constitute a deceptive act or practice.  

As set forth in Paragraph 7, respondent failed to employ reasonable and appropriate
measures to prevent unauthorized access to sensitive personal information.  Respondent’s
practices caused, or are likely to cause, substantial injury to consumers that is not offset
by countervailing benefits to consumers or competition and is not reasonably avoidable
by consumers.  This practice was, and is, an unfair act or practice.

The acts and practices of respondent as alleged in this complaint constitute unfair or
deceptive acts or practices in or affecting commerce in violation of Section 5(a) of the
Federal Trade Commission Act, 15 U.S.C. §  45(a).  

THEREFORE, the Federal Trade Commission this fifteenth day of June, 2011, has

issued this complaint against respondent.

By the Commission.

Donald S. Clark
Secretary

4

