UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION

102 3160

COMMISSIONERS:

Jon Leibowitz, Chairman
William E. Kovacic
J. Thomas Rosch
Edith Ramirez
Julie Brill

In the Matter of

)
)
)
)
)
)
                                                                        )

CERIDIAN CORPORATION,
a corporation.

DOCKET NO. C-4325

COMPLAINT

The Federal Trade Commission, having reason to believe that Ceridian Corporation

(“respondent”) has violated the provisions of the Federal Trade Commission Act, and it
appearing to the Commission that this proceeding is in the public interest, alleges:

1.

2.

3.

4.

Respondent Ceridian Corporation (“Ceridian”) is a Delaware corporation with its
principal office or place of business at 3311 East Old Shakopee Road, Minneapolis,
Minnesota 55425.

The acts and practices of respondent as alleged in this complaint have been in or
affecting commerce, as “commerce” is defined in Section 4 of the Federal Trade
Commission Act.

Respondent is a service provider that, among other things, provides payroll processing,
payroll-related tax filing, benefits administration, and other human resource services to
business customers. 

Among other things, respondent operates Powerpay, a web-based payroll processing
service in the United States under the name “Powerpay.”  Respondent’s small business
customers enter their employees’ personal information on to the Powerpay website,
which they use as a repository to collect, track, and store employee payroll data and to
automate payroll processing for their employees.   

Page 1 of  3

                                                                        
5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

When customers enter their employees’ personal information on to the Powerpay
website, the information is sent to computers on respondent’s computer network for the
purpose of computing payroll amounts and processing payroll checks and direct deposits. 
This personal information can consist of sensitive information about employees,
including, in some instances, name, address, email address, telephone number, Social
Security number, date of birth, and direct deposit account number (hereinafter “personal
information”).  

Since at least September 2008, respondent has disseminated or caused to be disseminated
statements on the Ceridian website, including, but not limited to, the following statement
regarding the privacy and confidentiality of the personal information they collect:

Worry-free  Safety  &  Reliability  .  .  .    When  managing  employee
health and payroll data, security is paramount with Ceridian.  Our
comprehensive security program is designed in accordance with ISO
27000 series standards, industry best practices and federal, state and
local regulatory requirements. 

In addition, respondent has disseminated or caused to be disseminated statements in its
contracts with customers, including, but not limited to, the following statements
regarding the security measures it takes to protect the personal information entrusted to
its business customers:

Confidentiality and Privacy:  [Ceridian] shall use the same degree of
care  as  it  uses  to  protect  its  own  confidential  information  of  like
nature, but no less than a reasonable degree of care, to maintain in
confidence the confidential information of the [customer]. 

Until at least December 2009, respondent engaged in a number of practices that, taken
together, failed to provide reasonable and appropriate security for the personal
information it collected and maintained.  Among other things, respondent: (1) stored
personal information in clear, readable text; (2) created unnecessary risks to personal
information by storing it indefinitely on its network without a business need; (3) did not
adequately assess the vulnerability of its web applications and network to commonly
known or reasonably foreseeable attacks, such as “Structured Query Language” (“SQL”)
injection attacks; (4) did not implement readily available, free or low-cost defenses to
such attacks; and (5) failed to employ reasonable measures to detect and prevent
unauthorized access to personal information. 

In December 2009, hackers exploited the failures set forth in Paragraph 8 by using a SQL
injection attack on the Powerpay website and web application.  Through this attack, the
hackers found personal information stored in Powerpay on respondent’s network and
exported the information of at least 27,673 individuals, including, in some instances,
bank account numbers, Social Security Numbers, and dates of birth, over the internet to
outside computers.  

Page 2 of  3

10.

11.

12.

13.

Through the means described in Paragraphs 6 and 7, respondent represented, expressly or
by implication, that it implemented reasonable and appropriate measures to protect
personal information against unauthorized access.

In truth and in fact, respondent did not implement reasonable and appropriate measures
to protect personal information against unauthorized access.  Therefore, the
representations set forth in Paragraphs 6 and 7 were, and are, false or misleading.

As set forth in Paragraph 8, respondent failed to employ reasonable and appropriate
measures to prevent unauthorized access to personal information.  Respondent’s practices
caused, or are likely to cause, substantial injury to consumers that is not offset by
countervailing benefits to consumers or competition and is not reasonably avoidable by
consumers.  This practice was, and is, an unfair act or practice.

The acts and practices of respondent as alleged in this complaint constitute unfair or
deceptive acts or practices in or affecting commerce in violation of Section 5(a) of the
Federal Trade Commission Act, 15 U.S.C. §  45(a).

THEREFORE, the Federal Trade Commission this eighth day of June, 2011, has issued

this complaint against respondent.

By the Commission.

Donald S. Clark
Secretary

Page 3 of  3

