UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BEFORE THE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION

102 3155

COMMISSIONERS:

Jon Leibowitz, Chairman
Edith Ramirez
Julie Brill
Maureen K. Ohlhausen
Joshua D. Wright

__________________________________________

In the Matter of 

)
)
)
)
)
)
__________________________________________)

COMPETE, INC., 

a corporation.

DOCKET NO. C-4384

COMPLAINT

The Federal Trade Commission, having reason to believe that Compete, Inc. (“Compete”

or “respondent”), a corporation, has violated the Federal Trade Commission Act (“FTC Act”),
and it appearing to the Commission that this proceeding is in the public interest, alleges:

1.

2.

3.

4.

Compete is a Delaware corporation, with its principal place of business at 501 Boylston
Street, Suite 6101, Boston, Massachusetts. 

The acts and practices of respondent, as alleged herein, have been in or affecting
commerce, as “commerce” is defined in Section 4 of the FTC Act.

 RESPONDENT’S BUSINESS PRACTICES AND REPRESENTATIONS TO
CONSUMERS

Compete is a market research company that collects data from consumers so that it can,
among other things, develop and sell analytical reports about consumer behavior on the
Internet.

Starting in January 2006, Compete collected data about consumers through two products. 
The first was the Compete Toolbar (“Toolbar”), which consumers installed to get “instant
access” to information about websites as they surfed the Internet, such as the popularity

1

        
of the websites they visited.  (See Compete Toolbar, Exhibit 1, formerly available from
www.compete.com).  The second product was the Consumer Input Panel, which allowed
consumers to win rewards while expressing their opinions to companies about products
and services.  (See Consumer Input Panel, Exhibit 2, formerly available from
www.consumerinput.com).  

In addition, Compete licensed its data collection software for third parties for their use,
including incorporating into their own toolbars or rewards programs.  In all cases the data
gathered through Compete’s data collection software was sent to Compete.

As of the end of October 2011, Compete had collected data from more than 4 million
consumers. 

Compete’s Tracking of Consumers’ Activities

When consumers installed the Toolbar, they were prompted to either leave enabled or to
disable a feature the company referred to as “Community Share.”  (See Exhibit 3). 
Compete provided the following description of the “Community Share” option:

5.

6.

7.

By  joining  Community  Share,  the  web  pages  you  visit  will  be
anonymously pooled with the Compete community to provide site
trust rankings and analytics.

See Compete Toolbar Setup, Exhibit 3.

Enabling “Community Share” activated Compete’s ability to collect data about the
consumer. 

8.

When consumers signed up for the Consumer Input Panel, Compete made statements
such as the following: 

[W]e measure your behavior as well as your opinions.  Consumer
Input  utilizes  a  piece  of  software  stored  on  your  computer  that
anonymously transmits aspects of your Internet browsing behavior so
that we can understand the sites, products and services you interact
with. 

See, e.g., Consumer Input Panel Registration, Exhibit 4. 

Compete always collected data about consumers who participated in the Consumer Input
Panel.  

9.

In addition, in its general privacy policy, Compete made the following statement about
“click-sharing,” which refers to the consumers’ sharing of data with Compete:

2

When  you  download  Compete  software,  including  the  Compete
Toolbar,  you  will  be  given  the  option  of  enabling  click-sharing.
Should you opt-in to click-sharing you will begin to anonymously
share the addresses of the web pages you visit online. 

See General Compete Privacy Policy, Exhibit 5. 

10.

In fact, Compete collected more than browsing behavior or addresses of web pages.  It
collected extensive information about consumers’ online activities and transmitted the
information in clear readable text to Compete’s servers.  The data collected included
information about all websites visited, all links followed, and the advertisements
displayed when the consumer was on a given web page.  The captured data included
details about consumers’ online behavior to the extent that, for example, Compete knew
whether a consumer abandoned or completed a purchase after placing an item in an
online shopping cart.  

11. Moreover, as far back as January 2006, Compete also captured some information

consumers communicated on secure web pages (e.g., https), such as credit card numbers,
financial account numbers, security codes and expiration dates, usernames, passwords,
search terms, or Social Security numbers. 

12.

Compete’s data capture occurred in the background as a consumer used the Internet;
there was no way for consumers – without special software and technical expertise – to
discover the extent of the data collection. 

Compete’s Filtering of Consumer Data 

13.

Compete made statements in its general privacy policy about filtering of personal
information such as the following:

All data is stripped of personally identifiable information before it is
transmitted to our servers.  Our data collection techniques have been
designed to purge personally identifiable information wherever we
find  it.    In  addition,  as  a  member  of  Compete  you  are  assigned  a
randomly generated user ID ensuring your anonymity. 

See General Compete Privacy Policy, Exhibit 5.

14.

Similarly, Compete made statements in its Consumer Input Panel privacy policy and
Frequently Asked Questions such as the following:

Inadvertently, the URL information we collect and license sometimes
contains  personal  information  about  Internet  users.    Potentially,  a
name, address, email address, or similar information that an Internet

3

user  enters  into  a  Web  page  can  become  part  of  the  URL  that  is
transmitted  to  us  and  stored  in  our  databases.  While  we  have  no
control  over  what  information  third  party  websites  put  into  their
URLs or where they put it, we make every commercially viable effort
to  purge  our  databases  of  any  personally  identifiable  information.
The data collection software uses a proprietary rules engine to search
through all URLs, before transmitting them to its database, to strip
out any such personally identifiable information.  We do not disclose
the contents of individual URLs stored in our databases so we will
not release or use this information.  Further, we aggregate data on
hundreds of thousands of users before supplying data to our clients,
thereby  ensuring  that  an  individual’s  privacy  remains  intact  at  all
times. 

See Consumer Input Privacy Policy, Exhibit 6.

In  addition,  the  data  collection  software  uses  a  proprietary  rules
engine to search through all URLs, before transmitting them directly
to  its  database,  to  strip  out  any  such  personally  identifiable
information, thus ensuring your privacy.

See Consumer Input Panel, Frequently Asked Questions, Exhibit 7.

15.

Compete used data filters to prevent the collection and use of some sensitive data. 
However, those filters were too narrow and improperly structured to avoid
collecting such data.  For instance, a filter was designed to prevent the collection
of personal identification numbers for financial accounts, and would have
prevented collection of that data if a website used the field name “PIN.” 
However, the filter would not have prevented such collection if a website used
similar field names such as “personal ID” or “security code.”  In addition,
Compete failed to implement a simple, commonly used, algorithm to screen out
credit card numbers, and Compete filtered some types of information only after
that information had been transmitted in clear text via the Internet to its servers.

Compete’s Data Security Practices

16.

In addition to the representations made about the collection of data, Compete
made statements about the security of user data such as the following:

We take reasonable security measures to protect against unauthorized
access  to  or  unauthorized  alteration,  disclosure  or  destruction  of
personal information.  These measures include internal reviews of our
data  collection,  storage  and  processing  practices  and  security
practices.

4

See General Compete Privacy Policy, Exhibit 5.

17.

Respondent engaged in a number of practices that, taken together, failed to
provide reasonable and appropriate security for consumer information collected
and transmitted by Compete.  Among other things, respondent:  

a.

b.

c.

created unnecessary risks of unauthorized access to consumer information
by transmitting sensitive information from secure web pages, such as
financial account numbers and security codes, in clear readable text over
the Internet;

failed to design and implement reasonable information safeguards to
control the risks to customer information; and

failed to use readily available, low-cost measures to assess and address the
risk that the data collection software would collect sensitive consumer
information that it was not authorized to collect. 

These security failures resulted in the creation of unnecessary risk to consumers’
personal information.  Compete transmitted the information it gathered –
including sensitive information – over the Internet in clear readable text.  Tools
for capturing data in transit over unsecured wireless networks, such as those often
provided in coffee shops and other public spaces, are commonly available,
making such clear-text data vulnerable to interception.  The misuse of such
information, particularly financial account information and Social Security
numbers, can facilitate identity theft and related consumer harms.

After flaws in Compete’s data collection practices were revealed publicly in
January 2010, Compete upgraded its filters, added new algorithms to screen out
information such as credit card numbers, and began encrypting data in transit. 
The company stopped distributing the Compete Toolbar to new customers, and
began to distribute its Consumer Input Panel software to new customers through
third parties rather than directly.  It continued to collect and use consumer data,
however.

18.

19.

VIOLATIONS OF THE FTC ACT

Count 1

20.

Through the means described in Paragraphs 7-9, respondent has represented,
expressly or by implication, that its products would collect and transmit
information about the websites consumers visited.

5

21.

22.

23.

24.

25.

26.

Respondent failed to disclose that its products would also collect and transmit
much more extensive information about the Internet behavior that occurs on
consumers’ computers, and information consumers provided in secure sessions
when interacting with third-party websites, shopping carts, and online accounts –
such as credit card and financial account numbers, security codes and expiration
dates, and Social Security numbers consumers entered into such web pages. 
These facts would be material to consumers.  Respondent’s failure to disclose
these facts, in light of the representations made, was, and is, a deceptive act or
practice.

Count 2

Through the means described in Paragraphs 13-14, respondent has represented,
expressly or by implication, that it stripped all personal information out of the
data it collected before transmitting it from consumers’ computers.   

In truth and in fact, Compete did not strip all personal information out of the data
before transmitting it from consumers’ computers.  As described in Paragraph 15
the consumer-side filters were too narrow and improperly structured to effectively
scrub personal data before transmission to Compete’s servers.  Therefore, the
representation set forth in Paragraph 22 was, and is, false or misleading and
constitutes a deceptive act or practice.   

Count 3

Through the means described in Paragraph 16, respondent has represented,
expressly or by implication, that it employs reasonable and appropriate measures
to protect data obtained from consumers from unauthorized access.   

In truth and in fact, as described in Paragraphs 10-11, 15 and 17-18, respondent
did not implement reasonable and appropriate measures to protect data obtained
from consumers from unauthorized access.  Therefore, the representation set forth
in Paragraph 24 was, and is, false or misleading and constitutes a deceptive act or
practice. 

Count 4

As described in Paragraphs 10-12, 15 and 17-18, respondent’s failure to employ
reasonable and appropriate measures to protect consumer information – including
credit card and financial account numbers, security codes and expiration dates,
and Social Security numbers – caused or was likely to cause substantial injury to
consumers that was not offset by countervailing benefits to consumers or
competition and was not reasonably avoidable by consumers.  This practice was,
and is, an unfair act or practice.

6

27.

The acts and practices of respondent as alleged in this complaint constitute unfair
or deceptive acts or practices in or affecting commerce in violation of Section
5(a) of the Federal Trade Commission Act.

THEREFORE, the Federal Trade Commission this twentieth day of February, 

2013, has issued this complaint against respondent.

By the Commission, Chairman Leibowitz and Commissioner Wright not

participating.

Donald S. Clark                                               
                                                                        Secretary                                                         
SEAL

7

