UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION 

122 3095 

COMMISSIONERS: 

Edith Ramirez, Chairwoman 
Julie Brill 
Maureen K. Ohlhausen 
Joshua D. Wright 
Terrell McSweeny 

In the Matter of  

AJAY PRASAD   

GMR TRANSCRIPTION SERVICES, INC.,  
a corporation,  

__________________________________________ 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
)  
) 
) 
) 
) 
SHREEKANT SRIVASTAVA, 
) 
individually and as officers of  
) 
GMR Transcription Services, Inc.   
__________________________________________) 

and 

DOCKET NO. C-4482 

COMPLAINT 

The Federal Trade Commission, having reason to believe that GMR Transcription Services, Inc., 
Ajay Prasad, and Shreekant Srivastava have violated the Federal Trade Commission Act (“FTC 
Act”), and it appearing to the Commission that this proceeding is in the public interest, alleges:  

1. 

2. 

3. 

GMR Transcription Services, Inc. (“GMR”), is a California corporation with its principal 
office at 2512 Chambers Road, Suite 206, Tustin, CA 92780. 

Respondent Ajay Prasad is president of respondent GMR and owns 80% of the company.  
He has authority to control the conduct of respondent GMR.  Individually or in concert 
with others he formulates, directs, or controls the policies, acts, or practices of respondent 
GMR, including the acts or practices alleged in this complaint.  His principal office or 
place of business is the same as respondent GMR. 

Respondent Shreekant Srivastava is vice president of respondent GMR and owns 20% of 
the company.  He has authority to control the conduct of respondent GMR.  Individually 
or in concert with others he formulates, directs, or controls the policies, acts, or practices 
of respondent GMR, including the acts or practices alleged in this complaint.  His 
principal office or place of business is the same as respondent GMR. 

1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

The acts and practices of respondents alleged in this complaint have been in or affecting 
commerce, as “commerce” is defined in Section 4 of the FTC Act. 

At all relevant times, respondents have been in the business of transcribing digital audio 
files (“audio files”) for individuals and businesses in a variety of professions and 
industries.  Respondents’ customers include: university students and faculty; well-known 
corporations (including retailers, insurers, and telecom and financial service providers); 
government agencies; and health care providers and hospitals. 

Respondents conduct their transcription business almost entirely online using: 
respondents’ own computers and devices; various websites; and computers and devices 
leased from third-party service providers that are operated by or for respondents 
(collectively, “respondents’ computer network”).   

In conducting business, respondents rely almost exclusively on independent service 
providers to transcribe audio files that respondents assign to them.  Respondents: 

(a) 

(b) 

assign non-medical audio file transcriptions to at least 100 independent typists 
located in North America; and   

automatically assigned all medical audio file transcriptions to Fedtrans 
Transcription Services, Inc. (“Fedtrans”), between at least January 1, 2009, and 
May 1, 2012.  Fedtrans, which is located in India, assigned respondents’ files to 
independent typists to transcribe.   

At all relevant times, respondents’ transcription process began when a customer logged in 
to one of respondents’ websites and uploaded an audio file to a leased server located on 
respondents’ computer network.  Based on the type of file, respondents assigned the 
audio file to one of their independent typists or Fedtrans.  After being notified of the 
assignment, the typist or Fedtrans logged in to the website and downloaded the file.  
Fedtrans followed a similar process through which an independent typist downloaded the 
file from Fedtrans’ computer network.  After downloading it, the typist converted the 
audio file into a Microsoft Word file (“transcript file”) and then followed the reverse 
process to upload it back to respondents’ computer network.  Afterwards, respondents 
either emailed the transcript file to the customer or notified the customer to retrieve the 
file from respondents’ computer network.   

Audio files and transcript files can include sensitive information from or about 
consumers, including children.  This information can include, but is not limited to: 
names, dates of birth, addresses, email addresses, telephone numbers, Social Security 
numbers, driver’s license numbers, tax information, medical histories, health care 
providers’ examination notes, medications, and psychiatric notes (collectively, “personal 
information”). 

2 

 
 
 
10. 

Since at least 2006, respondents have disseminated or caused to be disseminated privacy 
policies and statements, including, but not necessarily limited to, the following statements 
regarding the privacy and security of personal information:  

•  Why GMR Transcription Services? . . . Security Measures to Protect Your 

Confidentiality. 

•  Each transcriptionist within the GMR community is required to sign a Confidentiality 
Agreement prior to working for us.  This is kept on file.  You can be assured that the 
materials going through our system are highly secure and are never divulged to anyone.  

(Exhibit A: www.gmrtranscription.com (from 2006 through 2013)). 

•  HIPAA Compliant Medical Transcription Service 

(Exhibit B: www.gmrmedicaltranscription.com (from 2006 through May 2012)).  

• 

It is often asked what one needs to be careful while choosing an outsourcing 
transcription company.  In the medical industry, security and privacy are extremely 
important.  In outsourcing arrangements with services and healthcare vendors, you 
can check the vendor’s expertise and credibility by HIPAA compliance.  Amongst all 
the rules that are stipulated by HIPAA, ones concerned with security, health care 
compliance and privacy are deemed to be important by outsourcing experts.  The 
benefits include giving greater accuracy, data security, and absolute privacy for all of 
their patient’s (sic) records and documents.  Look for a company that is HIPAA 
compliant and takes proper measures to ensure security, health care compliance and 
privacy.  A good company will make sure that the sensitive information related to 
patients is handled with great care.  From compliance training and secure systems to 
the confidentiality agreements, Transcription Companies cover all the aspects 
involved in the HIPAA regulations. 

(Exhibit C: GMR Blog, http://blog.gmrtranscription.com/securing-medical-transcription-
data-with-hipaa/ (posted Feb. 23, 2010 through present).  

•  HIPAA compliant medical transcription is the basic need of any medical 

professionals and hospitals.  

(Exhibit D: Twitter (Sept. 19, 2010) @gmrtranscript). 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
11. 

Respondents have engaged in a number of practices that, taken together, failed to provide 
reasonable and appropriate security to protect personal information in audio and 
transcript files.  Among other things, respondents failed to: 

(a) 

(b) 

require typists to adopt and implement security measures, such as installing anti-
virus applications, or confirm that they had done so;  

adequately verify that their service provider, Fedtrans, implemented reasonable 
and appropriate security measures to protect personal information in audio and 
transcript files on Fedtrans’ network and computers used by Fedtrans’ typists.  
For example, respondents did not: 

(1) 

(2) 

require Fedtrans by contract to adopt and implement appropriate security 
measures to protect personal information in medical audio and transcript 
files, such as by requiring that files be securely stored and securely 
transmitted to typists (e.g., through encryption) and authenticating typists 
(e.g., through unique user credentials) before granting them access to such 
files; and  

take adequate measures to monitor and assess whether Fedtrans employed 
measures to appropriately protect personal information under the 
circumstances.  Respondents did not request or review relevant 
information about Fedtrans’ security practices, such as, for example, 
Fedtrans’ written information security program or audits or assessments 
Fedtrans may have had of its computer network. 

12. 

13. 

As a result of these security failures, respondents were unaware that Fedtrans used a File 
Transfer Protocol (“FTP”) application to both store medical audio and transcript files on 
its computer network and transmit the files between the network and its typists.  The 
application stored and transmitted files in clear readable text and was configured so that 
the files could be accessed online by anyone without authentication.  A major search 
engine therefore was able to reach the Fedtrans FTP application and index thousands of 
medical transcript files that respondents had assigned to Fedtrans (collectively, the 
“Fedtrans files”).  The files were publicly available, and were accessed, using the search 
engine.  

The Fedtrans files were prepared between March 2011 and October 2011.  They included 
personal information, such as names, dates of birth, health care provider names, 
examination notes, medical histories, medications, and, in some cases, employment 
histories and marital status.  Some of the files contained children’s examination notes and 
highly sensitive medical information, such as information about psychiatric disorders, 
alcohol use, drug abuse, and pregnancy loss.  Such information can easily be misused to 
cause substantial consumer injury, such as identity theft, and unauthorized access can 
cause harm by disclosing sensitive private medical information. 

14. 

Respondents could have corrected their security failures using readily available, low-cost 
security measures. 

4 

 
15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

Consumers have no way of independently knowing about respondents’ security failures 
and could not reasonably avoid possible harms from such failures. 

After being informed that the Fedtrans files were available online in clear readable text, 
respondents notified Fedtrans and asked the search engine that had indexed the files to 
remove the files from its cache. 

VIOLATIONS OF THE FTC ACT 

COUNT I 

Through the means described in Paragraph 10, respondents represented, expressly or by 
implication, that they implemented reasonable and appropriate security measures to 
prevent unauthorized access to the personal information in audio and transcript files.   

In truth and in fact, as described in Paragraphs 11-14, respondents did not implement 
reasonable and appropriate security measures to prevent unauthorized access to personal 
information in audio and transcript files.  Therefore, the representation set forth in 
Paragraph 17 was false or misleading and constitutes a deceptive act or practice.    

COUNT II 

Through the means described in Paragraph 10, respondents represented, expressly or by 
implication, that they took reasonable measures to oversee their service providers to 
ensure such service provider implemented reasonable and appropriate security measures.  

In truth and in fact, as described in Paragraphs 11-14, respondents did not take reasonable 
measures to oversee their service providers to oversee ensure such service providers 
implemented reasonable and appropriate security measures.  Therefore, the representation 
set forth in Paragraph 19 was false or misleading and constitutes a deceptive act or 
practice.   

        COUNT III 

As set forth in Paragraphs 11-15, respondents failed to employ reasonable and 
appropriate measures to prevent unauthorized access to personal information in audio and 
transcript files.  Respondents’ practices caused, or are likely to cause, substantial injury to 
consumers that is not outweighed by countervailing benefits to consumers or competition 
and is not reasonably avoidable by consumers.  This practice was, and is, an unfair act or 
practice. 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
22. 

The acts and practices of respondents as alleged in this complaint constitute unfair or 
deceptive acts or practices in or affecting commerce in violation of Section 5(a) of the 
Federal Trade Commission Act. 

THEREFORE, the Federal Trade Commission this fourteenth day of August, 2014, has 

issued this complaint against respondents. 

By the Commission, Commissioner McSweeny not participating. 

SEAL: 

Donald S. Clark 
Secretary 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
