UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION 

132 3078 

COMMISSIONERS: 

Edith Ramirez, Chairwoman 
Julie Brill 
Maureen K. Ohlhausen 
Joshua D. Wright 
Terrell McSweeny 

In the Matter of 

) 
) 
) 
            ) 
Snapchat, Inc., 
a corporation. 
) 
                                                                        ) 

DOCKET NO. C-4501 

COMPLAINT 

The Federal Trade Commission, having reason to believe that Snapchat, Inc. 

(“respondent”) has violated the provisions of the Federal Trade Commission Act, and it 
appearing to the Commission that this proceeding is in the public interest, alleges: 

1.  Respondent Snapchat, Inc. (“Snapchat”), the successor corporation to Toyopa Group 

LLC, is a Delaware corporation with its principal office or place of business at 63 Market 
Street, Venice, California 90291. 

2.  The acts and practices of respondent as alleged in this complaint have been in or affecting 
commerce, as “commerce” is defined in Section 4 of the Federal Trade Commission Act. 

RESPONDENT’S BUSINESS PRACTICES 

3.  Snapchat provides a mobile application that allows consumers to send and receive photo 
and video messages known as “snaps.”  Before sending a snap, the application requires 
the sender to designate a period of time that the recipient will be allowed to view the 
snap.   Snapchat markets the application as an “ephemeral” messaging application, 
having claimed that once the timer expires, the snap “disappears forever.”    

4.  Snapchat launched its mobile application on Apple Inc.’s iOS operating system in 
September 2011 and on Google Inc.’s Android operating system in October 2012.  
Snapchat added video messaging to the iOS version of its application in December 2012 
and to the Android version of its application in February 2013. 

1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                                 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  Both the iTunes App Store and the Google Play store list Snapchat among the top 15 free 
applications.  As of September 2013, users transmit more than 350 million snaps daily.  

SNAPCHAT’S “DISAPPEARING” MESSAGES 
(Counts 1 and 2) 

6.  Snapchat marketed its application as a service for sending “disappearing” photo and 

video messages, declaring that the message sender “control[s] how long your friends can 
view your message.”   Before sending a snap, the application requires the sender to 
designate a period of time – with the default set to a maximum of 10 seconds – that the 
recipient will be allowed to view the snap, as depicted below:  

7.  Since the application’s launch on iOS until May 2013, and since the application’s launch 
on Android until June 2013, Snapchat disseminated, or caused to be disseminated, to 
consumers the following statements on its product description page on the iTunes App 
Store and Google Play:  

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.  From October 2012 to October 2013, Snapchat disseminated, or caused to be 

disseminated, to consumers the following statement on the “FAQ” page on its website: 

Is there any way to view an image after the time has expired? 
No, snaps disappear after the timer runs out. … 

9.  Despite these claims, several methods exist by which a recipient can use tools outside of 
the application to save both photo and video messages, allowing the recipient to access 
and view the photos or videos indefinitely.   

10. For example, when a recipient receives a video message, the application stores the video 
file in a location outside of the application’s “sandbox” (i.e., the application’s private 
storage area on the device that other applications cannot access).  Because the file is 
stored in this unrestricted area, until October 2013, a recipient could connect his or her 
mobile device to a computer and use simple file browsing tools to locate and save the 
video file.  This method for saving video files sent through the application was widely 
publicized as early as December 2012.  Snapchat did not mitigate this flaw until October 
2013, when it began encrypting video files sent through the application.  

11. Furthermore, third-party developers have built applications that can connect to 

Snapchat’s application programming interface (“API”), thereby allowing recipients to log 
into the Snapchat service without using the official Snapchat application.  Because the 
timer and related “deletion” functionality is dependent on the recipient’s use of the 
official Snapchat application, recipients can instead simply use a third-party application 
to download and save both photo and video messages.  As early as June 2012, a security 
researcher warned Snapchat that it would be “pretty easy to write a tool to download and 
save the images a user receives” due to the way the API functions.  Indeed, beginning in 
spring 2013, third-party developers released several applications on the iTunes App Store 

3 

 
 
 
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
and Google Play that recipients can use to save and view photo or video messages 
indefinitely.  On Google Play alone, ten of these applications have been downloaded as 
many as 1.7 million times. 

12. The file browsing tools and third-party applications described in paragraphs 10 and 11 

are free or low cost and publicly available on the Internet.  In order to download, install, 
and use these tools, a recipient need not make any modifications to the iOS or Android 
operating systems and would need little technical knowledge.  

13. In addition to the methods described in paragraphs 10-12, a recipient can use the mobile 
device’s screenshot capability to capture an image of a snap while it appears on the 
device screen.   

14. Snapchat claimed that if a recipient took a screenshot of a snap, the sender would be 

notified.  On its product description pages, as described in paragraph 7, Snapchat stated: 
“We’ll let you know if [recipients] take a screenshot!”  In addition, from October 2012 to  
February 2013, Snapchat disseminated, or caused to be disseminated, to consumers the 
following statement on the “FAQ” page on its website: 

What if I take a screenshot? 
Screenshots can be captured if you’re quick.  The sender will be notified 
immediately.   

15. However, recipients can easily circumvent Snapchat’s screenshot detection mechanism.  
For example, on versions of iOS prior to iOS 7, the recipient need only double press the 
device’s Home button in rapid succession to evade the detection mechanism and take a 
screenshot of any snap without the sender being notified.  This method was widely 
publicized.   

Count 1 

16. As described in Paragraphs 6, 7, and 8, Snapchat has represented, expressly or by 
implication, that when sending a message through its application, the message will 
disappear forever after the user-set time period expires.  

17. In truth and in fact, as described in Paragraph 9-12, when sending a message through its 

application, the message may not disappear forever after the user-set time period expires.  
Therefore, the representation set forth in Paragraph 16 is false or misleading.  

Count 2 

18. As described in Paragraphs 7 and 14, Snapchat has represented, expressly or by 

implication, that the sender will be notified if the recipient takes a screenshot of a snap.   

19. In truth and in fact, as described in Paragraph 15, the sender may not be notified if the 

recipient takes a screenshot of a snap.  Therefore, the representation set forth in 
Paragraph 18 is false or misleading. 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SNAPCHAT’S COLLECTION OF GEOLOCATION INFORMATION 
(Count 3) 

20. From June 2011 to February 2013, Snapchat disseminated or caused to be disseminated 

to consumers the following statements in its privacy policy: 

We do not ask for, track, or access any location-specific information from your 
device at any time while you are using the Snapchat application.   

21. In October 2012, Snapchat integrated an analytics tracking service in the Android version 
of its application that acted as its service provider.  While the Android operating system 
provided notice to consumers that the application may access location information, 
Snapchat did not disclose that it would, in fact, access location information, and 
continued to represent that Snapchat did “not ask for, track, or access any location-
specific information . . .” 

22. Contrary to the representation in Snapchat’s privacy policy, from October 2012 to 

February 2013, the Snapchat application on Android transmitted Wi-Fi-based and cell-
based location information from users’ mobile devices to its analytics tracking service 
provider.   

Count 3 

23. As described in Paragraph 21, Snapchat has represented, expressly or by implication, that 

it does not collect users’ location information.  

24. In truth and in fact, as described in Paragraph 22, Snapchat did collect users’ location 

information.  Therefore, the representation set forth in Paragraph 23 is false or 
misleading.  

SNAPCHAT’S COLLECTION OF CONTACTS INFORMATION 
(Counts 4 and 5) 

Snapchat’s Deceptive Find Friends User Interface 

25. Snapchat provides its users with a feature to find friends on the service.  During 

registration, the application prompts the user to “Enter your mobile number to find your 
friends on Snapchat!,” implying – prior to September 2012 – through its user interface 
that the mobile phone number was the only information Snapchat collected to find the 
user’s friends, as depicted below: 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Users can also access this “Find Friends” feature at any time through the application’s 
menu options.   

26. However, when the user chooses to Find Friends, Snapchat collects not only the phone 

number a user enters, but also, without informing the user, the names and phone numbers 
of all the contacts in the user’s mobile device address book. 

27. Snapchat did not provide notice of, or receive user consent for, this collection until 
September 2012, at which time the iOS operating system was updated to provide a 
notification when an application accessed the user’s address book.  

Count 4 

28. As described in Paragraphs 25, through its user interface, Snapchat represented, expressly 
or by implication, that the only personal information Snapchat collected when the user 
chose to Find Friends was the mobile number that the user entered. 

29. In truth and in fact, as described in Paragraph 26, the mobile number that the user entered 
was not the only personal information that Snapchat collected.  Snapchat also collected 
the names and phone numbers of all contacts in the user’s mobile device address book.  
Therefore, the representation set forth in Paragraph 28 is false or misleading.  

Snapchat’s Deceptive Privacy Policy Statement Regarding the Find Friends Feature 

30. From June 2011 to February 2013, Snapchat disseminated or caused to be disseminated 
to consumers the following statements, or similar statements, in its privacy policy 
regarding its Find Friends feature: 

Optional to the user, we also collect an email, phone number, and facebook id for 
purpose of finding friends on the service.  (Emphasis in original). 

6 

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
31. As explained in Paragraph 26, the Snapchat application collected more than email, phone 
number, and Facebook ID for purpose of finding friends on the service.  The application 
collected the names and phone numbers of all contacts in the user’s mobile device 
address book. 

Count 5 

32. As described in Paragraph 30, Snapchat, through its privacy policy, represented, 

expressly or by implication, that the only personal information Snapchat collected from a 
user for the purpose of finding friends on the service was email, phone number, and 
Facebook ID.  

33. In truth and in fact, as described in Paragraph 31, email, phone number, and Facebook ID 
was not the only personal information that Snapchat collected for the purpose of finding 
friends on the service.  Snapchat collected the names and phone numbers of all contacts 
in the user’s mobile device address book when the user chose to Find Friends.  Therefore, 
the representation set forth in Paragraph 32 is false or misleading.  

SNAPCHAT’S FAILURE TO SECURE ITS FIND FRIENDS FEATURE 

(Count 6) 

34. Snapchat failed to securely design its Find Friends feature.  As described in paragraph 25, 
Snapchat prompts the user to enter a mobile phone number that will be associated with 
the user’s account.  In addition, as described in paragraph 26, Snapchat collects the 
names and phone numbers of all the contacts in the user’s address book.  Snapchat’s API 
uses this information to locate the user’s friends on the service.   

35. From September 2011 to December 2012, Snapchat failed to verify that the phone 

number that an iOS user entered into the application did, in fact, belong to the mobile 
device being used by that individual. Due to this failure, an individual could create an 
account using a phone number that belonged to another consumer, enabling the 
individual to send and receive snaps associated with another consumer’s phone number.  

36. Numerous consumers complained to Snapchat that individuals had created Snapchat 

accounts with phone numbers belonging to other consumers, leading to the misuse and 
unintentional disclosure of consumers’ personal information.  For example, consumers 
complained that they had sent snaps to accounts under the belief that they were 
communicating with a friend, when in fact they were not, resulting in the unintentional 
disclosure of photos containing personal information.  In addition, consumers complained 
that accounts associated with their phone numbers had been used to send inappropriate or 
offensive snaps. 

37. Snapchat could have prevented the misuse and unintentional disclosure of consumers’ 
personal information by verifying phone numbers using common and readily available 
methods.     

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
38. Indeed, in December 2012, Snapchat began performing short-message-service (“SMS”) 
verification to confirm that the entered phone number did in fact belong to the mobile 
device being used by that individual.  

39. In addition, from September 2011 to December 2013, Snapchat failed to implement 

effective restrictions on the number of Find Friend requests that any one account could 
make to its API.  Furthermore, Snapchat failed to implement any restrictions on serial and 
automated account creation.  As a result of these failures, in December 2013, attackers 
were able to use multiple accounts to send millions of Find Friend requests using 
randomly generated phone numbers.  The attackers were able to compile a database of 
4.6 million Snapchat usernames and the associated mobile phone numbers.  The exposure 
of usernames and mobile phone numbers could lead to costly spam, phishing, and other 
unsolicited communications.  

40. From June 2011 to May 2012, Snapchat disseminated or caused to be disseminated to 

consumers the following statement in its privacy policy: 

The Toyopa Group, LLC is dedicated to securing customer data and, to that end, 
employs the best security practices to keep your data protected. 

41. From May 2012 to February 2013, Snapchat disseminated or caused to be disseminated 

to consumers the following statement in its privacy policy: 

Snapchat takes reasonable steps to help protect your personal information in an 
effort to prevent loss, misuse, and unauthorized access, disclosure, alteration, and 
destruction.  

42. From February 2013 to the present, Snapchat disseminated or caused to be disseminated 

to consumers the following statement in its privacy policy:  

We take reasonable measures to help protect information about you from loss, 
theft, misuse and unauthorized access, disclosure, alteration and destruction. 

Count 6 

43. As described in Paragraphs 40-42, Snapchat has represented, expressly or by implication, 
that it employs reasonable security measures to protect personal information from misuse 
and unauthorized disclosure.  

44. In truth and in fact, as described in Paragraphs 34-39, in many instances, Snapchat did 
not employ reasonable security measures to protect personal information from misuse 
and unauthorized disclosure.  Therefore, the representation set forth in Paragraph 43 is 
false or misleading.  

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
45. The acts and practices of respondent as alleged in this complaint constitute deceptive acts 
or practices in or affecting commerce in violation of Section 5(a) of the Federal Trade 
Commission Act, 15 U.S.C. § 45(a). 

THEREFORE, the Federal Trade Commission this twenty-third day of December, 2014, has 
issued this complaint against respondent. 

By the Commission. 

Janice Podoll Frankle 
Acting Secretary 

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
