UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION 

112 3095 

COMMISSIONERS: 

Edith Ramirez, Chairwoman 
Julie Brill 
Maureen K. Ohlhausen 
Joshua D. Wright 
Terrell McSweeny 

__________________________________________ 

In the Matter of 

GENELINK, INC., 

a corporation, also d/b/a  

GENELINK BIOSCIENCES, INC., 

 ) 
 )  
 ) 
 ) 
 ) 
 ) 
 ) 
 ) 
FORUTM INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION,  ) 
 ) 
 ) 
__________________________________________ ) 

GENEWIZE LIFE SCIENCES, INC.   

formerly known as 

and 

DOCKET NO. C-4456 

DOCKET NO. C-4457 

COMPLAINT 

The Federal Trade Commission, having reason to believe that GeneLink, Inc., a 
corporation, and foruTM International Corporation, formerly known as GeneWize Life Sciences, 
Inc. (“respondents”), have violated the provisions of the Federal Trade Commission Act, and it 
appearing to the Commission that this proceeding is in the public interest, alleges: 

Respondent GeneLink, Inc. (“GeneLink”), also doing business as GeneLink Biosciences, 

1. 
Inc., is a publicly held Pennsylvania corporation with its principal office or place of business at 
8250 Exchange Drive, Suite 120, Orlando, Florida 32809.   

Respondent foruTM International Corporation (“foruTM”), formerly known as GeneWize 

2. 
Life Sciences, Inc., is a Delaware corporation with its principal office or place of business at 
1231 Greenway Drive, Suite 200, Irving, Texas 75038.   

Respondents have developed, advertised, labeled, offered for sale, and sold through a 

3. 
multi-level marketing system utilizing affiliates and licensees, nutritional supplements and 
skincare products, including a line of customized products sold under several names such as 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LifeMap ME DNA Customized Nutritional Supplements, GeneWize Customized Nutritional 
Supplements, LifeMap ME DNA Customized Skin Repair Serum, and GeneWize Customized 
Skin Repair Serum.   

Respondents purport to customize their nutritional supplements and skincare products to 

4. 
each consumer’s genetic disadvantages.  Using an “at home” cheek swab kit, each consumer 
submits a cheek swab to respondents.  Respondents then send the swab sample to a third-party 
laboratory for analysis of genetic variations called single nucleotide polymorphisms (“SNPs”).  
Based on the laboratory test results, respondents prepare a DNA assessment that recommends 
specific levels of nutritional support based on each SNP analyzed.   

Respondents’ LifeMap Healthy Aging Assessment analyzes 12 SNPs that purportedly 

5. 
affect nutritional health and aging, and their LifeMap Skin Health Assessment, formerly known 
as the Dermagenetic SNP Assessment, analyzes six SNPs that purportedly affect skin health and 
aging (collectively, “DNA Assessments”).  According to respondents, each SNP “predicts 
biochemical processes that are associated with significant physiological disadvantages, . . . the 
negative potential [of which] has been scientifically proven to be modulated by nutritional 
supplementation.”  Compl. Ex. A. 

Based on the DNA Assessments, respondents offer dietary supplements and skincare 

6. 
products that are purportedly customized to each consumer’s unique genetic profile.   

In their business practices, respondents obtain consumers’ genetic information.  Since 

7. 
2008, respondents have collected genetic information from nearly 30,000 consumers. 

Respondents’ nutritional supplements are “drugs” or “food” within the meaning of 

8. 
Sections 12 and 15 of the Federal Trade Commission Act (“FTC Act”). 

Respondents’ skincare products are “drugs” or “cosmetics” within the meaning of 

9. 
Sections 12 and 15 of the FTC Act. 

The acts and practices of respondents, as alleged herein, have been in or affecting 

10. 
commerce, as “commerce” is defined in Section 4 of the FTC Act. 

Advertising and Marketing 

Respondents have developed and disseminated or caused to be disseminated 

11. 
advertisements, packaging, and promotional materials for respondents’ genetically customized 
nutritional supplements and skincare products including, but not limited to, Exhibits A through I.  
These materials contain the following statements and depictions: 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. 

LifeMap ME DNA Customized Nutritional Supplement Pamphlet               
(Ex. A)  

Healthy Aging is Now as Close as Your DNA! 
Genetically Customized Nutritional Supplements Made 
Exclusively for You. 

* * * 

Why These Aging Genes? 
Although  human  DNA  contains  several  million  natural  genetic 
variations  (called  SNPs),  GeneLink  scientists  used  the  following 
criteria to choose the SNPs for the GeneWize Healthy Aging DNA 
Assessment: 

1.  Valid:  The existence of the SNP is supported by solid, 

credible, scientific evidence. 

2.  Important:  A SNP predicts biochemical processes that are 
associated with significant physiological disadvantages. 

3.  Frequent:  [T]he SNP is relatively common among the general 

population. 

4.  Actionable:  A SNP’s negative potential has been scientifically 

proven to be modulated by nutritional supplementation. 

B. 

The New Wellness Frontier Brochure (Ex. B)  

By analyzing and understanding your unique genetic strengths and 
weaknesses,  you  can  eliminate  the  guesswork  and  “genetically 
guide” the optimal nutritional supplement or skincare formulation 
to match your LifeMap Healthy Aging AssessmentTM. 

. . . Research shows that we can measure SNPs and have the ability 
to  impact  the  expression  of  our  genes  through  proper  nutritional 
support. 

* * * 

What will I feel after taking my LifeMap ME Formula? 
Since  everyone’s  body  is  different,  you’ll  likely  receive  unique 
benefits from your product.  Some of the benefits you may notice 
and some you may not.  Some of the most common benefits people 
report include: 

  Ability to fall asleep faster 
  Longer, deeper sleep . . . 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
You may or may not experience these same results.  Your body is 
unique  and  so  is  your  formula.    It  makes  sense  that  your  results 
will be unique too. 

C. 

Your Genetic Compass Brochure (Ex. C)  

PERSONALIZATION  OF 

GENETICALLY  GUIDED 
NUTRIENT AND SKIN CARE FORMULATIONS. 
The  Nutragenetic  and  Dermagenetic  SNP  assessments  [i.e.,  the 
DNA  Assessments]  examine  a  variety  of  genes  which  are 
responsible for making proteins that play a very important role in 
our  overall  health.    These  include  oxidative  stress,  heart  and 
circulatory  health,  immune  health,  bone  health,  pulmary  [sic] 
health, eye/vision health, defense against environmental pollutants, 
collagen  breakdown,  photoaging,  skin  slacking  &  wrinkling  and 
mild irritation. 

KEY  POINT    If  the  Nutragenetic  and  Dermagenetic  SNP  test 
predicts that you might not be as efficient as possible in any given 
health area, you may be able to do something about it.  For every 
SNP  tested,  there  are  potentially  compensating  and  enhancing 
nutrients that can put you on a better path toward optimal health. 

* * * 

There  are  millions  of  SNPs.    However,  only  certain  subsets  are 
associated  with  increased  risk  for  disease  and  physiologic  health 
conditions.  .  .  .  GeneLink  selects  only  those  SNPs  which  can  be 
lifestyle 
addressed  using  nutrients  or 
modifications. 

formulations  or 

D.  Welcome to genewize [sic]:  Making Wellness Personal Brochure  

(Ex. D) 

What  Are  Your  Options  to  Improve  Health  and 
Wellbeing? 

•  Eating healthier? 

•  Pharmaceuticals? 

•  Exercise? 

•  Guessing at supplements? 

•  Genetically guided nutrition! 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do you have a plan to capitalize on this new science? 

* * * 

GeneWize . . . Connecting the Dots 

•  Over 14 Years R&D Prior To Launch 

•  Developed significant DNA tests for SNPs on “Heavy Lifters” 

•  Developed  “SNP  Boosts”  to  mitigate,  compensate,  or  bypass 

SNP effects 

•  Powerful health and wellness benefits! 

ONLY comprehensive genetically guided products! 

A View Into Your Patient or Customer . . . 

•  Patented DNA Collection Kit 
•  Sophisticated Assessment 
•  Confidentiality 
•  Pinpoint Genetic Predispositions 
•  Personalized Formula 

Over 500,000 Possibilities 

With a simple cheek swab . . . . 

We Assess . . . Others Guess . . .  

E. 

Cover Letter to GeneWize Fulfillment Package (Ex. E) 

LifeMap EssentialsTM 
Your Foundation for Optimal Wellness 

Welcome  and  congratulations  for  taking  an  important  next  step 
toward  healthy  aging  with  the  most  advanced  and  scientifically 
proven  nutritional  supplement  programs  available  –  the  LifeMap 
NutritionTM System, which consists of the following: 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  The  LifeMap  DNA  collection  kit  (provided  by 

GeneLink, Inc.) 

2.  The LifeMap EssentialsTM formula (A non-custom 

foundation supplement to be taken while awaiting your 
Healthy Aging Report & DNA guided LifeMap Custom 
formula) 

3.  The LifeMap DNA Healthy Aging ReportTM (results 
in about 4 weeks after mailing your DNA collection kit) 

4.  The LifeMap CustomTM formula (A totally 
customized formula based on your DNA) 

F. 

GeneWize Official Website, mygenewize.com (Ex. F)  

LifeMap NutritionTM System Testimonials 

Seeing  is  believing  but  I  can’t  believe  what  [I]  am 
seeing! 

. . . [T]he best of all is the lack of pain on my knees and hips when 
running.    Running  was  my  passion  but  severe  knee  and  hip  pain 
kept me from it the last 10 years.  LifeMap is renewing me in ways 
I never thought possible. . . . 

Loving life, Margarita Nido Stewart 

* * * 

GeneWize has changed my health and my life! 

I’m in my 5th month on the LifeMap Custom supplements and I’m 
amazed  by  my  personal  results.    So  far  I’ve  experienced  great 
sleep, great energy, great skin, and much more.  Plus, I continually 
notice  even  more  positive  changes:    prior  to  taking  the  LifeMap 
supplements,  my  memory  wasn’t  the  greatest  –  but  now  I  feel 
much sharper mentally!  This is very important to me because my 
Mother had Alzheimer’s.  . . . 

Roberta Johnson, GeneWize Affiliate, Miami, Florida 

* * * 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thanks for the Memories 

. .  .  I do  have  certain  health challenges  and  when  I started taking 
my LifeMap Product, after about a week and a half I was amazed 
to feel tremendous results!  Before, I was getting only about three 
hours  of  sleep,  now  I  can  finally  sleep!  My  concentration  & 
memory also seem to be improving! . . . 

Lina M. Oliver 

* * * 

LifeMap Nutrition Meets Karaoke! 

After taking the LifeMap Product for only two weeks I have a lot 
more  energy  and  my  dry  skin  has  improved  dramatically.  .  .  .    I 
also began to see something amazing happen:  I went from getting 
very  little  sleep  at  night  to  now  sleeping  like  a  baby!    I’ve  been 
waking up feeling so refreshed that I want to jump up and down on 
my  bed  like  a  child  .  .  .  .    I’m  feeling  so  happy  I’ve  been  out 
singing Karaoke and having a blast. 

You  couldn’t  pay  me  to  stop  taking  the  LifeMap  Nutrition™.    I 
have the energy to pursue my dreams of being a singer, and much 
more! . . . 

Talina Oblander 

* * * 

Wife Says, “Send me my LifeMap Nutrition too.” 

I  have  been  taking  the  LifeMap  Nutrition™  supplement  now  for 
two months. 

Although  I  wanted  my  wife  to  try  the  program  too,  she  just 
wouldn’t budge.  She said she’d have to wait to see how I felt first.  
Well,  I’m  now  sleeping  through  the  night  for  the  first  time  in 
twelve years. . . . 

Ernest Smith 

* * * 

Another Sleep Story.  It’s Making Us Sleepy 

I’ve always had a problem with sleeping through the night.  Within 
two  days  of  taking  the  LifeMap  product  I  immediately  noticed  I 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
was  finding  the  special  peace  a  full  seven  to  eight  hours  of  sleep 
offers.  Problem solved!  GeneWize has revolutionized my life and 
I bless all the company every day for it’s [sic] incredible science. . 
. . 

Kent Riedesel 

G. 

GeneWize e-lift newsletter:  Monthly E-News Exclusively for GeneWize 
Affiliates (Ex. G)  

Spotlighting Top Leader 
Chief Alexander Taku: 
My Visionary Source Of Success In GeneWize 

. .  .  I decided to  enroll in GeneWize and  know  my DNA  . . . six 
months  ago.  .  .  .    My  health  condition  prior  to  this  occasion  was 
life-threatening.  . . . I was a serious diabetic and cardiac patient. . . 
.  One would never have imagined . . . that a company would come 
up  with  free  DNA  assessments  for  all!  .  .  .    Six  months  on  the 
products  has  produced  wonderful  results.    My  blood  sugar  has 
stabilized  at  80/130  and  my  diabetic  problem  is  over,  while  a 
recent  medical  report  has  revealed  the  reduction  of  my  heart  to 
normal size. . . .  For the last six months, I have only been taking 
my free GeneWize nutritional supplements. . . . 

H. 

GeneWize Affiliate Website, thegenecollective.com (Ex. H)  

Zero limits  
Gene Team 

* * * 

I’ve been fielding a lot of questions about just what Genewize 
[sic] has done for people.  
I  myself  can  report  deeper  sleep  and  healthier  feeling  skin.  
I’ve  talked  with  a  number  of  people  who  have  experienced 
improvements in everything from blood pressure to eczema to 
hormonal  issues  to  arthritis.    The  most  common  observations 
people note are better sleep and improved energy levels. . . . 

* * * 

I  am  a  Massage  Therapist  and  have  had  tremendous  pain  and 
stiffness in the morning after doing too many massages for the last 
few  years.    I  used  to  take  Glucosamine,  which  did  seem  to  help 
with the pain and stiffness, but it wasn’t total relief.  After taking 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the LifeMap product it hit me one day that I was no longer in pain 
when  I  woke  in  the  morning,  and  the  stiffness  had  disappeared.  
You  see,  my  Genetic  Assessment  Report  had  found  that  I  need 
maximum  support  for  the  car  ilage  [sic]  in  my  body.    Mystery 
solved! . . . . 

Warm Regards, A.R., LMP 

* * * 

. . . [T]he best of all is he [sic] lack of pain on my knees and hips 
when running.  Running was my passion but severe knee  and hip 
pain kept me from it the last 10 years.  LifeMap is renewing me in 
ways  I  never  thought  possible.  ??  [sic]    Thank  you  to  all  those 
behind the GeneWize Lifemap [sic] NutritionTM System . . .  Now, 
can you imagine what LifeMap is doing to what we can’t see!!!  

Loving life, M.N.S. 

I. 

LifeMap ME DNA Skin Repair Serum Pamphlet (Ex. I)  

Historic Evolution in Skin Care 
Genetically Customized Skin Care Made Exclusively for You. 

*  *  *  

What Do Your Genes Know That You Don’t? 

DNA profiling revolutionized the legal world, and now it’s doing 
the same for skin care.  Now the same technology  can be used to 
identify  a  whole  new  set  of  perpetrators.    The  main  suspects?  
Collagen breakdown, sun damage, sensitivity, and oxidative stress 
caused by free radical activity due to environmental polution [sic]. 

So  how  do  you  know  how  susceptible  you  are  to  these  aging 
culprits? 

Take a minute to swab inside your cheek.  Place your DNA sample 
inside our bar-coded envelope, and send to our lab.  We assess six 
skin  health  genes  to  tell  you  what  skin  aging  problems  you’re 
likely to face as you age. 

The  information  is  then  used  to  customize  a  skin  repair  serum 
using  a  combination  of  active  ingredients  selected  to  compensate 
for  particular  deficiencies  in  areas  of  skin  aging,  wrinkling, 

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
collagen  breakdown,  irritation  and  the  skin’s  ability  to  defend 
against environmental stresses. 

How Does it Work? 

*  *  * 

*  *  * 
The  patented,  non-invasive  simple  swab  allows  you  to  peek  into 
your predispositions to discover what your genes have to say about 
your skin aging future. 

*  *  * 

Clinically Proven Results 
An eight-week, double blind, randomized and controlled clinical 
study compared the performance of placebo skin care versus the 
performance of the “genetically-customized” skin care formula 
containing active ingredients designed for each participant.  For those 
using the genetically-customized formulation, 62% reported 
substantial reduction in the appearance of wrinkles after 14 days of 
treatment.  After 56 days, the number of participants reporting 
reduction in the appearance of wrinkles rose to 70%.  Similarly, after 
14 days, 56% of the participants indicated improved skin firmness and 
after eight weeks of treatment those with improvements in skin 
firmness rose to 70%. 

*  *  * 

LifeMap ME DNA Skin Repair Ingredient List 
Thanks to the custom nature of our product, the ingredient list will 
represent  the  latest  breakthrough  ingredients  which  have  been 
clinically proven to enhance or diminish aging predispositions. 

Through the means described in Paragraph 11, respondents have represented, expressly 

12. 
or by implication, that genetic disadvantages identified through respondents’ DNA Assessments 
are scientifically proven to be mitigated or compensated for with nutritional supplementation. 

13. 
In truth and in fact, genetic disadvantages identified through respondents’ DNA 
Assessments are not scientifically proven to be mitigated or compensated for with nutritional 
supplementation.  Therefore, the representation set forth in Paragraph 12 was, and is, false or 
misleading. 

Through the means described in Paragraph 11, respondents have represented, expressly 
14. 
or by implication, that their custom-blended nutritional supplements effectively compensate for 
genetic disadvantages identified by respondents’ DNA Assessments, thereby reducing an 
individual’s risk of impaired health or illness.   

10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Through the means described in Paragraph 11, respondents have represented, expressly 
15. 
or by implication, that they possessed and relied upon a reasonable basis that substantiated the 
representation set forth in Paragraph 14 at the time the representation was made. 

In truth and in fact, respondents did not possess and rely upon a reasonable basis that 
16. 
substantiated the representation set forth in Paragraph 14, at the time the representation was 
made.  Therefore, the representation set forth in Paragraph 15 was, and is, false or misleading. 

17. 
Through the use of testimonials, as described in Paragraph 11, respondents have 
represented, expressly or by implication, that their custom-blended nutritional supplements treat 
or mitigate diabetes, heart disease, arthritis, and insomnia, among other ailments. 

18. 
Through the means described in Paragraph 11, respondents have represented, expressly 
or by implication, that they possessed and relied upon a reasonable basis that substantiated the 
representations set forth in Paragraph 17 at the time the representations were made. 

In truth and in fact, respondents did not possess and rely upon a reasonable basis that 

19. 
substantiated the representations set forth in Paragraph 17, at the time the representations were 
made.  Therefore, the representation set forth in Paragraph 18 was, and is, false or misleading. 

20. 
Through the means described in Paragraph 11, including, but not necessarily limited to, 
the statements and depictions contained in the materials attached as Exhibit I, respondents have 
represented, expressly or by implication, that their genetically customized skin repair serum is 
scientifically proven to:  (a) reduce the appearance of wrinkles and improve skin firmness; and 
(b) enhance or diminish aging predispositions, including collagen breakdown, sun damage, and 
oxidative stress. 

21. 
In truth and in fact, respondents’ genetically customized skin repair serum is not 
scientifically proven to:  (a) reduce the appearance of wrinkles and improve skin firmness; or (b) 
enhance or diminish aging predispositions, including collagen breakdown, sun damage, and 
oxidative stress.  Therefore, the representations set forth in Paragraph 20 were, and are, false or 
misleading. 

Respondents have provided advertisements and promotional materials to affiliates for use 

22. 
in their marketing and sale of respondents’ genetically customized nutritional supplements and 
skincare products, including the attached Exhibits A and G. 

Through the means described in Paragraph 22, respondents have provided means and 

23. 
instrumentalities to respondents’ affiliates in furtherance of the deceptive and misleading acts or 
practices alleged in Paragraphs 12 through 21. 

11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Data Security 

Through sales of purported genetically customized nutritional supplements and skincare 

24. 
products, respondents obtain consumers’ personal information, including, but not limited to, 
consumers’ names, addresses, email addresses, telephone numbers, dates of birth, Social Security 
numbers, bank account numbers, credit card account numbers, and genetic information. 

Respondents use third parties to receive, process, or maintain this personal information 

25. 
(“service providers”), and respondents store consumers’ personal information on their corporate 
network. 

Respondents permit service providers to access consumers’ personal information so that 

26. 
service providers may, among other services, develop and maintain respondents’ customer 
relationship management database, fulfill customers’ orders, and develop related applications. 

27.  Misuse of the types of personal information respondents collect – including Social 
Security numbers, dates of birth, and genetic information – can facilitate identity theft, privacy 
harms, and other consumer injuries. 

28. 
Since at least November 2008, respondents have disseminated or caused to be 
disseminated to consumers privacy policies and statements, including, but not limited to, a 
Privacy Protection Policy (Exhibit J).  This policy contains the following statements: 

GeneWize Life Sciences, Inc. Privacy Protection Policy (Exhibit J)  

GeneWize  Life  Sciences  respects  the  privacy  of  every  individual 
and  has  taken  every  precaution  to  create  a  process  that  allows 
individuals  to  maintain  the  highest  level  of  privacy. 
  All 
information  provided  by  the  individual  taking  the  assessment  is 
kept on a secure server . . . . 

* * * 

to 

Information 

send  Personal  Customer 

third-party 
We 
subcontractors  and  agents  that  work  on  our  behalf  to  provide 
certain services.  These third parties do not have the right to use the 
Personal Customer Information beyond what is necessary to assist 
us  or  fulfill  your  order.    They  are  contractually  obligated  to 
maintain the confidentiality and security of the Personal Customer 
Information and are restricted from using such information in any 
way not expressly authorized by GENEWIZE. 

Respondents have engaged in a number of practices that, taken together, failed to provide 

29. 
reasonable and appropriate security for consumers’ personal information.  Among other things, 
respondents: 

12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. 

B. 

C. 

Failed to implement reasonable policies and procedures to protect the security of 
consumers’ personal information collected and maintained by respondents; 

Failed to require by contract that service providers implement and maintain 
appropriate safeguards for consumers’ personal information; 

Failed to provide reasonable oversight of service providers, for instance by 
requiring that service providers implement simple, low-cost, and readily available 
defenses to protect consumers’ personal information; 

D. 

Created unnecessary risks to personal information by: 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

iv. 

v. 

maintaining consumers’ personal information, including consumers’ 
names, addresses, email addresses, telephone numbers, dates of birth, 
Social Security numbers, and bank account numbers, in clear text; 

providing respondents’ employees, regardless of business need, with 
access to consumers’ complete personal information; 

providing service providers with access to consumers’ complete personal 
information, rather than, for example, to fictitious data sets, to develop 
new applications; 

failing to perform assessments to identify reasonably foreseeable risks to 
the security, integrity, and confidentiality of consumers’ personal 
information on respondents’ network; and  

providing a service provider that needed only certain categories of 
information for its business purposes with access to consumers’ complete 
personal information; and 

E. 

Did not use readily available security measures to limit wireless access to their 
network.   

30. 
In March 2012, respondents’ failure to provide reasonable oversight of service providers 
and respondents’ failure to limit employees’ access to consumers’ personal information resulted 
in a vulnerability that, until respondents were alerted by an affiliate, provided that affiliate with 
the ability to access the personal information of every foruTM (then known as GeneWize) 
customer and affiliate in respondents’ customer relationship management database. The personal 
information that could have been accessed included consumers’ names, addresses, email 
addresses, telephone numbers, dates of birth, and Social Security numbers.  

Through the means described in Paragraph 28, respondents have represented, expressly 

31. 
or by implication, that they implement reasonable and appropriate measures to secure 
consumers’ personal information. 

13 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In truth and in fact, as set forth in Paragraph 29, respondents have not implemented 

32. 
reasonable and appropriate measures to protect consumers’ personal information from 
unauthorized access.  Therefore, the representation set forth in Paragraph 31 was, and is, false or 
misleading. 

33. 
As set forth in Paragraph 29, respondents failed to employ reasonable and appropriate 
measures to prevent unauthorized access to consumers’ personal information.  Respondents’ 
practices are likely to cause substantial injury to consumers that is not reasonably avoidable by 
consumers themselves and is not outweighed by countervailing benefits to consumers or 
competition.  This practice was, and is, an unfair act or practice. 

The acts and practices of respondents as alleged in this complaint constitute unfair or 

34. 
deceptive acts or practices, and the making of false advertisements, in or affecting commerce, in 
violation of Sections 5(a) and 12 of the FTC Act.   

THEREFORE, the Federal Trade Commission, this eighth day of May, 2014, has issued 

this complaint against respondents. 

By the Commission, Commissioner Ohlhausen dissenting, and Commissioner McSweeny 

not participating. 

SEAL: 

Donald S. Clark 
Secretary 

14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
