UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
BEFORE THE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION  

 1723025 

COMMISSIONERS:            Joseph J. Simons, Chairman 
                                                Maureen K. Ohlhausen 

Noah Joshua Phillips 
Rohit Chopra 
Rebecca Kelly Slaughter 

In the Matter of 

        DOCKET NO. C-4657 

BLU PRODUCTS, INC., a corporation; and 

SAMUEL OHEV-ZION, individually and as 
owner and President of BLU PRODUCTS, 
INC. 

COMPLAINT 

The Federal Trade Commission (“Commission”), having reason to believe that BLU 
Products, Inc., a corporation, and Samuel Ohev-Zion, individually and as an owner and President 
of BLU Products, Inc. (collectively “Respondents”), have violated the provisions of the Federal 
Trade Commission Act, and it appearing to the Commission that this proceeding is in the public 
interest, alleges:  

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

Respondent BLU Products, Inc. (“BLU”) is a Florida corporation with its principal office 
or place of business at 10814 NW 33rd St., Building 100, Doral, Florida 33172. 

Respondent Samuel Ohev-Zion is a co-owner and the President and CEO of BLU. 
Individually or in concert with others, Mr. Ohev-Zion controlled or had authority to 
control, or participated in the acts and practices alleged in this complaint.  His principal 
office or place of business is the same as that of BLU. 

BLU sells mobile devices to consumers through a number of retailers such as Amazon, 
Walmart, and Best Buy.  To date, Respondents claim to have sold over 50 million devices 
to consumers around the world.  Respondents market BLU as the “fastest growing mobile 
manufacturer.” 

The acts or practices of Respondents alleged in this complaint have been in or affecting 
commerce, as “commerce” is defined in Section 4 of the Federal Trade Commission Act.  

1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

11. 

RESPONDENTS’ BUSINESS PRACTICES 

While BLU describes itself as a “mobile manufacturer,” it actually outsources the 
manufacturing process for the devices it sells to consumers to a number of original device 
manufacturers (“ODMs”).  

These ODMs manufacture mobile devices branded with the BLU name according to 
Respondents’ instructions and purchase orders.  For example, Respondents are 
responsible for selecting certain software that comes preinstalled on devices, the default 
settings that consumers first see, and certain security features that are applied to 
consumers’ devices.  

BLU then sells its customized and branded mobile devices to consumers through a 
number of retailers, such as Amazon, Best Buy and Walmart.   

As part of the this process, since at least 2015, in order to provide firmware updating 
services, BLU licensed software from ADUPS Technology Co., LTD (“ADUPS”) and 
directed ODMs to preinstall this software on Respondents’ mobile devices.  

As a result of BLU directing its ODMs to preinstall ADUPS software on its devices, 
ADUPS obtained full administrative access and control of Respondents’ devices.  

ADUPS is a China-based company that offers advertising, data mining, and firmware 
over-the-air (“FOTA”) update services to mobile and Internet of Things connected 
devices.  FOTA updates allow device manufacturers to issue security patches or 
operating system upgrades to devices over wireless and cellular networks.  

BLU entered into a contract with ADUPS to have the China-based company perform 
FOTA update services on their devices.  Respondents did not ask ADUPS to perform any 
other services. 

RESPONDENTS’ DISCLOSURE OF CONSUMERS’  
PERSONAL INFORMATION 

12. 

Until at least November 2016, the ADUPS software on BLU devices transmitted personal 
information about consumers to ADUPS servers without consumers’ knowledge and 
consent, including:  

full contents of text messages;  
real-time cellular tower location data;  

• 
• 
•  call and text message logs with full telephone numbers; 
•  contact lists; and 
• 

lists of applications used and installed on each device. 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

ADUPS software collected and transmitted consumers’ text messages to its servers every 
72 hours. ADUPS software also collected consumers’ location data in real-time and 
transmitted this data back to its servers every 24 hours.  

Reports about this unexpected collection and sharing became public on or about 
November 15, 2016.   

After these reports emerged, some consumers concerned about their privacy and security 
ceased using Respondents’ devices entirely.  Others expended time and effort disabling 
the ADUPS software from their devices.  In doing so, they have been left with a device 
unable to receive critical security updates.  

In order to reassure consumers about the privacy and security of their devices, BLU 
posted a security notice on its website informing consumers that ADUPS had updated its 
software to cease its unexpected data collection practices.  

17. 

However, BLU continued to allow ADUPS to operate on its older devices without 
adequate oversight.  

RESPONDENTS’ PRIVACY POLICY 

18. 

In its privacy policy, BLU has stated that it limits the disclosure of consumers’ 
information to third parties, as follows: 

We limit the disclosure of your information to only the third parties (e.g. service 
providers) we use to fulfil[l] our obligations to you.  Examples include operating 
and maintaining our Products, taking orders, delivering packages, sending postal 
mail and email, removing repetitive information from customer lists, analyzing 
data, providing marketing consultation and assistance, distributing customer 
surveys, processing credit card payments, and providing customer service.  These 
companies have access to personal information needed to perform their services 
or functions, but may not use it for other purposes. (emphasis added) 

19. 

Contrary to the privacy policy, as described in paragraphs 11-17, ADUPS had access to 
personal information that was not needed to perform FOTA updates, the only service or 
function BLU contracted with ADUPS to perform.  For example, to process FOTA 
updates, ADUPS did not need to receive contacts or the contents of text messages.  

20. 

BLU’s privacy policy has further stated that the company implements: 

appropriate physical, electronic, and managerial security procedures to help 
protect the personal information that you provide us. 

21. 

In fact, Respondents did not implement appropriate physical, electronic, and managerial 
security procedures.  For example, Respondents failed to implement appropriate security 
procedures to oversee the security practices of their service providers, such as by:  

3 

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
a. 

b. 

c. 

d. 

failing to perform adequate due diligence in the selection and retention of service 
providers; for example, Respondents failed to assess or evaluate the privacy or 
security practices of ADUPS prior to entering into an agreement with that 
company;  

failing to adopt and implement written data security standards, policies, 
procedures or practices that apply to the oversight of their service providers, 
including ADUPS;   

failing to contractually require their service providers to adopt and implement 
data security standards, policies, procedures or practices; and 

failing to adequately assess the privacy and security risks of third-party software, 
such as ADUPS.    

22. 

These failures resulted in the following:  

a.  ADUPS collected sensitive personal information via BLU devices, without users’ 
knowledge or consent, that ADUPS did not need to perform its functions, as 
described in paragraphs 11-17.    

b.  Preinstalled software on BLU devices contained commonly known security 

vulnerabilities that, for example, made them susceptible to “command injection” 
attacks, which an unknown third party could exploit to gain full access to users’ 
devices and, among other things, factory reset a device, take screenshots and 
video recordings of a device’s screen, and install malicious applications.   

VIOLATIONS OF THE FTC ACT 

Deceptive Representation Regarding  
Disclosure of Personal Information 
(Count I) 

23. 

24. 

Through the means described in Paragraph 18, Respondents have represented, directly or 
indirectly, expressly or by implication, that they limit the disclosure of users’ information 
to their third-party service providers only to the extent necessary to perform their services 
or functions on behalf of BLU and not for other purposes. 

In fact, as described in Paragraph 19, personal information from BLU devices sold by 
Respondents was transmitted to ADUPS that was not needed to perform their services or 
functions on behalf of BLU, including FOTA updates.  Therefore, the representation set 
forth in Paragraph 23 is false or misleading. 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Deceptive Representation Regarding Data Security Practices 
(Count II) 

25. 

26. 

Through the means described in Paragraph 20, Respondents have represented, directly or 
indirectly, expressly or by implication, that they implement appropriate physical, 
electronic, and managerial security procedures to protect the personal information 
provided by consumers.  

In fact, as described in Paragraphs 21-22, Respondents failed to implement appropriate 
physical, electronic, and managerial security procedures to protect the information 
provided by consumers. Therefore, the representation set forth in Paragraph 25 is false or 
misleading. 

THEREFORE, the Federal Trade Commission, this sixth day of September 2018, has 

issued this Complaint against Respondents. 

By the Commission.  

SEAL: 

Donald S. Clark 
Secretary 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
