UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION 

172 3003 

COMMISSIONERS: 

Joseph J. Simons, Chairman 
Noah Joshua Phillips  
Rohit Chopra 
Rebecca Kelly Slaughter 
Christine S. Wilson 

In the Matter of              

______________________________________ 
     ) 
 ) 
)         
) 
)
 )
______________________________________ ) 

James V. Grago, Jr., individually and 
d/b/a ClixSense.com    

DOCKET NO. C-4678 

COMPLAINT 

The Federal Trade Commission (“Commission”), having reason to believe that James V. 

Grago, Jr., individually and doing business as ClixSense.com, a sole proprietorship 
(“Respondent”), has violated the provisions of the Federal Trade Commission Act (“FTC Act”), 
and it appearing to the Commission that this proceeding is in the public interest, alleges: 

1.

2.

3.

4.

Respondent is James V. Grago, Jr. (“Grago”), individually and doing business as
ClixSense.com (“ClixSense”), which operates as a sole proprietorship with its principal
office or place of business in Hampstead, North Carolina.  Respondent Grago is the sole
owner of ClixSense.  Individually or in concert with others, he controlled or had the
authority to control, or participated in the acts and practices alleged in this complaint.

The acts and practices of Respondent alleged in this complaint have been in or affecting
commerce, as “commerce” is defined in Section 4 of the FTC Act.

RESPONDENT’S BUSINESS ACTIVITIES 

Since 2010, Respondent Grago has owned and operated ClixSense.  ClixSense generated
revenues of $6.7 million in 2015 and $9.1 million in 2016.  ClixSense’s users are
individual consumers who earn money from ClixSense by viewing advertisements,
performing online tasks, or completing online surveys.

As part of the enrollment process, Respondent collects and stores personal information on
ClixSense’s computer network about its users, including full names, physical addresses,

Page 1 of 6 

5.

6.

7.

8.

dates of birth, gender, and email addresses.  Respondent also requires users to create a 
username, a password, and an answer to a security question that it stores in its database. 

Respondent requires that users who earn more than $600 annually from ClixSense
provide Respondent with their Social Security numbers.

In total, Respondent stores or has stored personal information, including Social Security
numbers, for approximately 6.6 million consumers.

RESPONDENT’S DECEPTIVE PRACTICES 

Since at least 2011, Respondent has disseminated or caused to be disseminated the
following statement, among others, regarding the security measures ClixSense takes to
protect personal information.  (See Exhibit A):

Is my personal information secure? 
ClixSense utilizes the latest security and encryption techniques to ensure 
the security of your account information . . . .  We view protection of 
users’ privacy as a very important community principle.  We understand 
clearly that you and your information are one of our most important assets. 

Through at least 2016, Respondent did not utilize the latest security techniques in the
following areas, as it promised to users in the statement described in Paragraph 7.
Respondent failed to:

a.

b.

perform vulnerability and penetration testing of the network;

use techniques to protect the ClixSense website from commonly known or
reasonably foreseeable vulnerabilities, and attacks from third parties attempting to
obtain access to consumer information stored in Respondent’s databases.  For
example, Respondent failed to:

i.

ii.

iii.

use Intrusion Detection and Prevention systems (IDPS), application-aware
firewalls, or reverse proxies, among other techniques, to protect against
Cross-Site Scripting (XSS), Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF), Open
Uniform Resource Locator (URL) redirection, and frameable clickjacking;

employ strong cryptographic algorithms and Transport Layer Security
(TLS); and

use up-to-date Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) certificates;

c.

implement reasonable access controls.  For example, Respondent failed to:

Page 2 of 6 

i.

ii.

iii.

use segregation, among other techniques, to limit access between
computers on ClixSense’s network and between such computers and the
Internet;

utilize a password management solution, among other techniques, to
prevent employees from storing plain text user credentials in personal
email accounts, and on ClixSense’s laptops; and

change default login and password credentials for third-party company
network resources;

d.

implement techniques to detect anomalous activity and/or cybersecurity events.
For example, Respondent failed to:

i.

ii.

iii.

use logging to collect sufficient information to adequately assess
cybersecurity events;

implement an IDPS to alert Respondent of potentially unauthorized access
to ClixSense’s network; and

use data loss prevention tools, among other techniques, to regularly
monitor for unauthorized attempts to exfiltrate consumers’ personal
information across and outside ClixSense’s network boundaries; and

e.

use encryption, among other techniques, to prevent known risks to consumers’
personal information, including consumers’ names, addresses, email addresses,
dates of birth, gender, answers to security questions, login and password
credentials, and Social Security numbers, when stored in clear text, or otherwise
unobfuscated, on ClixSense’s network and devices.

Respondent’s practices, as described in Paragraph 8, failed to meet the minimal data
security measures prescribed by data security professionals since at least 2013.  Those
practices, therefore, were not the “latest security techniques” to secure consumers’
personal information through at least 2016.

Since at least 2011, as described in Paragraph 8, Respondent stored consumers’ personal
information on ClixSense’s networks in clear text, employing no encryption whatsoever
to that data at rest.  Respondent, therefore, did not utilize the latest encryption techniques
to secure consumers’ personal information through at least 2016, as it promised in the
statement to users referenced in Paragraph 7.

9.

10.

RESPONDENT’S UNFAIR PRACTICES 

11.

Since 2010, Respondent has engaged in a number of unreasonable security practices that

Page 3 of 6 

led to the breach described in Paragraphs 13 to 20, which caused or are likely to cause 
substantial consumer injury.  Among other things, Respondent: 

a.

b.

c.

d.

failed to implement readily available security measures to limit access between
computers on ClixSense’s network, and between such computers and the Internet;

permitted employees to store plain text user credentials in personal email
accounts, and on ClixSense’s laptops;

failed to change default login and password credentials for third-party company
network resources; and

maintained consumers’ personal information, including consumers’ names,
addresses, email addresses, dates of birth, gender, answers to security questions,
login and password credentials, and Social Security numbers, in clear text on
ClixSense’s network and devices.

12.

13.

Respondent could have addressed each of the failures described in Paragraph 11 by
implementing readily available and relatively low-cost security measures.

In November 2015, a ClixSense user informed Respondent about a publicly available
web browser extension that purportedly allowed users to automatically click on and view
advertisements.  The automated tool would potentially facilitate click fraud on
Respondent, requiring Respondent to pay users for advertisements they did not view.

14. Without exercising precautions such as using a virtual machine to segregate the software

from network credentials or users’ personal information, Respondent downloaded the
unknown and potentially harmful browser extension onto the ClixSense network in
February 2016.  Security experts have long opined that companies should have
appropriate segregation between systems to avoid exposure of such information.

15.

Following the downloading of the browser extension, and continuing for many months,
one or more hackers used the browser extension as an entry point to obtain information to
attack ClixSense’s computer network.  The hacker(s) then engaged in activities on
ClixSense’s network that put Respondent on notice that ClixSense’s network had been
compromised, including deleting content from the ClixSense website; accessing
documents, email accounts, and credentials stored on employee laptops; changing
employees’ logins and passwords; redirecting email notifications for multiple network
accounts, including ClixSense’s cloud and Domain Name System (DNS) host services;
and redirecting visitors to the ClixSense website to an unaffiliated adult-themed website.

16.

On or about September 6, 2016, the hacker(s) used a set of credentials obtained from an
email message on a compromised employee’s company laptop to access an old server
that Respondent no longer used and that Respondent should have disconnected from the

Page 4 of 6 

17.

18.

ClixSense network.  These server credentials were the default credentials issued to 
ClixSense but never changed. 

Because the old server was still connected to the ClixSense network, the hacker(s) was
able to use it to connect to the active ClixSense server where consumer personal
information was stored.  The hacker(s) connected to ClixSense’s active server and
downloaded a copy of the ClixSense user table, which contained clear text information
regarding 6.6 million consumers—including some 500,000 U.S. consumers.

Following this attack, the hacker(s) accessed and then published and offered for sale on a
website known for posting of security exploits, personal information pertaining to
approximately 2.7 million consumers, including full names and physical addresses, dates
of birth, gender, answers to security questions, email addresses and passwords, as well as
hundreds of Social Security numbers.  The public availability of this data increases the
likelihood of identity theft or fraud for consumers whose information was posted.

19. Misuse of the types of personal information ClixSense collects—including Social

Security numbers, dates of birth, full names, physical addresses, gender, email addresses,
usernames, passwords, and answers to security questions—is likely to facilitate identity
theft, privacy harms, and other consumer injuries.

20.

21.

22.

23.

On September 11, 2016, Respondent published a data breach announcement on
ClixSense’s website.  Two months later, on November 14, 2016, Respondent sent
individual breach notification emails to U.S. consumers.  Prior to these notifications,
consumers had no way of independently knowing about Respondent’s security failures
and could not reasonably have avoided possible harms from such failures.

VIOLATIONS OF THE FTC ACT 

Count I – Deception: Misrepresentation about Encryption 

As described in Paragraph 7, in connection with the ClixSense website, Respondent has
represented, directly or indirectly, expressly or by implication, that Respondent utilized
the latest encryption techniques to ensure the security of users’ personal information.

In fact, as set forth in Paragraphs 8 and 10, Respondent did not utilize any encryption
techniques to ensure the security of users’ personal information.  Therefore, the
representation set forth in Paragraph 21 is false or misleading.

Count II – Deception: Misrepresentation about Latest Security Techniques 

As described in Paragraph 7, in connection with the ClixSense website, Respondent has
represented, directly or indirectly, expressly or by implication, that Respondent utilized
the latest security techniques to ensure the security of users’ personal information.

Page 5 of 6 

24.

25.

26.

In fact, in the as set forth in Paragraphs 8 to 9, Respondent did not utilize the latest
security techniques to ensure the security of users’ personal information.  Therefore, the
representation set forth in Paragraph 23 is false or misleading.

Count III – Unfairness: Failure to Employ Reasonable Security Practices 

As described in Paragraphs 11 to 20, Respondent’s failure to employ reasonable security
practices caused or is likely to cause substantial injury to consumers that is not
outweighed by countervailing benefits to consumers or competition and is not reasonably
avoidable by consumers themselves.  This practice is an unfair act or practice.

The acts and practices of Respondent as alleged in this complaint constitute unfair or
deceptive acts or practices in or affecting commerce in violation of Section 5(a) of the
FTC Act, 15 U.S.C § 45(a).

THEREFORE, the Federal Trade Commission this nineteenth day of June, 2019, 

has issued this complaint against Respondent. 

            By the Commission. 

SEAL: 
ISSUED:  June 19, 2019  

April J. Tabor 
Acting Secretary 

Page 6 of 6 

 
