162 3130 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION 

COMMISSIONERS:            Joseph J. Simons, Chairman 

Noah Joshua Phillips 
Rohit Chopra 
Rebecca Kelly Slaughter 
Christine S. Wilson 

In the Matter of 

______________________________________ 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
)        

INFOTRAX SYSTEMS, L.C., a limited 
liability company, and 

MARK RAWLINS 
______________________________________ ) 

DOCKET NO. C-4696 

COMPLAINT 

The Federal Trade Commission (“Commission” or “FTC”), having reason to believe that 

InfoTrax Systems, L.C., a limited liability company, and Mark Rawlins, individually and as 
founder and Chief Executive Officer of InfoTrax Systems, L.C. (collectively, “Respondents”), 
have violated the provisions of the Federal Trade Commission Act (“FTC Act”), and it appearing 
to the Commission that this proceeding is in the public interest, alleges: 

1. 

Respondent InfoTrax Systems, L.C. (“InfoTrax”) operates as a limited liability 
company with its principal office or place of business at 1875 South State Street, Suite 3000, 
Orem, Utah 84097. 

2. 

Respondent Mark Rawlins (“Mr. Rawlins”) is the founder of InfoTrax and served 
as Chief Executive Officer of InfoTrax during the time period relevant to this complaint.  Prior to 
founding InfoTrax in 1998, Mr. Rawlins spent eighteen years at a software company, and he 
studied computer science in college.  Individually or in concert with others, he controlled or had 
the authority to control, or participated in the acts and practices of InfoTrax, including the acts 
and practices alleged in this complaint.  Specifically, Mr. Rawlins reviewed and approved 
InfoTrax’s information technology security policies, was involved in discussions with clients 
about data security regularly, and was involved in the company’s long-term data security 
strategy.  His principal office or place of business is in Orem, Utah. 

Page 1  of 6  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
       
 
                                                   
 
         
     
                
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
3. 

The acts and practices of Respondents alleged in this complaint have been in or 

affecting commerce, as “commerce” is defined in Section 4 of the FTC Act. 

RESPONDENTS’ BUSINESS PRACTICES 

4. 

Since 1998, Respondents have operated a technology company that provides 

backend operations systems and online distributor tools for the direct sales industry. 

5. 

InfoTrax’s clients are primarily multi-level marketers, which rely on InfoTrax’s 

products and services to manage all aspects of their business operations, including compensation, 
inventory, orders, accounting, training, communication, and data security, among other things. 
InfoTrax’s clients include multi-level marketers like dōTERRA International, LLC 
(“dōTERRA”), XanGo, LLC (“XanGo”), and LifeVantage Corp. (“LifeVantage”). 

6. 

Typically, InfoTrax operates the major aspects of its clients’ website portals for 
their distributors and customers.  Through these website portals, individuals register with multi-
level marketers as distributors, place orders for themselves and the end consumers who purchase 
from them, and enroll new distributors. 

7. 

In the process of registering and placing orders, distributors—on behalf of 

themselves and their end consumers—supply InfoTrax with significant amounts of personal 
information about themselves and their end consumers, which may include full names; dates of 
birth; physical and email addresses; telephone numbers; Social Security numbers (“SSNs”) or 
other government identification numbers; payment card information including credit or debit 
card numbers, Card Verification Values (“CVVs”) and expiration dates; bank account 
information including bank account and routing numbers; and account user IDs and passwords. 

8. 

As part of providing products and services to manage the business operations of 

its clients, InfoTrax assumes responsibility for the security and confidentiality of consumers’ 
personal information by contract, and purports to ensure that all personal information is 
adequately protected. 

9. 

As of September 2016, Respondents stored personal information for 

approximately 11.8 million consumers. 

RESPONDENTS’ UNREASONABLE DATA SECURITY PRACTICES 

10. 

From at least 2014 through March 2016, Respondents engaged in a number of 

unreasonable data security practices.  Among other things, Respondents: 

a.  failed to have a systematic process for inventorying and deleting consumers’ personal 
information stored on InfoTrax’s network that is no longer necessary; 

b.  failed to adequately assess the cybersecurity risk posed to consumers’ personal 

Page 2  of 6  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
information stored on InfoTrax’s network by performing adequate code review of 
InfoTrax’s software, and penetration testing of InfoTrax’s network and software; 

c.  failed to detect malicious file uploads by implementing protections such as adequate 
input validation; 

d.  failed to adequately limit the locations to which third parties could upload unknown 
files on InfoTrax’s network; 

e.  failed to adequately segment InfoTrax’s network to ensure that one client’s 
distributors could not access another client’s data on the network; 

failed to implement safeguards to detect anomalous activity and/or cybersecurity 

f. 
events.  For example, Respondents failed to: 

implement an intrusion prevention or detection system to alert Respondents of 

i. 
potentially unauthorized queries and/or access to InfoTrax’s network; 

use file integrity monitoring tools to determine whether any files on 

ii. 
InfoTrax’s network had been altered; and 

iii.  use data loss prevention tools to regularly monitor for unauthorized attempts 
to exfiltrate consumers’ personal information outside InfoTrax’s network 
boundaries; and 

g.  stored consumers’ personal information, including consumers’ SSNs, payment card 
information (including full or partial credit card and debit card numbers, CVVs, and 
expiration dates), bank account information (including account and routing numbers), and 
authentication credentials such as user IDs and passwords, in clear, readable text on 
InfoTrax’s network. 

11. 

Respondents could have addressed each of the failures described in paragraph 10 

by implementing readily available and relatively low-cost security measures. 

SECURITY INCIDENTS AND DATA BREACHES 

12. 

As a result of the failures described in paragraph 10, on or before May 5, 2014, an 
intruder exploited vulnerabilities in InfoTrax’s server and a client’s website to upload malicious 
code that enabled remote control over InfoTrax’s server.  Using the code, an intruder could view 
files on InfoTrax’s server, delete such files, upload new files, and access data from the server.  

13. 

During a period of almost two years, between May 5, 2014, and February 23, 

2016, an intruder accessed InfoTrax’s server undetected a total of seventeen times. 

Page 3  of 6  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
14. 

Thereafter, on March 2, 2016, an intruder began to pull information from 

InfoTrax’s systems.  Specifically, the intruder queried certain databases on InfoTrax’s systems 
from which the intruder accessed personal information of approximately one million consumers, 
including: full names; physical addresses; email addresses; telephone numbers; SSNs; distributor 
user IDs and passwords; and admin IDs and passwords.  One of these databases contained legacy 
data that Respondents failed to migrate to a new product.  Because Respondents did not properly 
inventory and manage this data, they did not know this data existed, much less take steps to 
protect it. 

15. 

On that same day, an intruder accessed a different log file stored on InfoTrax’s 

server that contained, among other things, even more personal information of consumers, 
including over 600 names and addresses, over 150 SSNs or other government identification 
numbers, over 500 unique unmasked payment account numbers with expiration data and CVVs, 
and 16 bank account and routing numbers.  

16. 

On March 6, 2016, an intruder queried yet another database from which the 

intruder accessed over 4100 user IDs and passwords of distributors, in clear text, which could be 
used to access a client’s website.  With these user IDs and passwords, the intruder could access 
those distributors’ accounts, where the intruder could access some of the personal information of 
those distributors and their end consumers, as well as personal information from other websites 
where distributors and their end consumers used the same user IDs and passwords.  

17. 

Because Respondents failed to implement safeguards and security measures to 

detect anomalous activity and/or cybersecurity events, Respondents did not discover the presence 
of the intruder(s) from May 5, 2014, until March 7, 2016, when InfoTrax began receiving alerts 
that one of its servers had reached its maximum capacity.  The only reason Respondents received 
any alerts is because an intruder had created a data archive file that had grown so large that the 
disk ran out of space.  Only then did Respondents begin to take steps to remove the intruder from 
InfoTrax’s network. 

18. 

On March 14, 2016, an intruder compromised Respondents’ environment again, 

using malicious code to collect information through a client’s website portal operated by 
Respondents.  The code was designed to harvest payment card and other billing data newly 
submitted by distributors during the checkout process.  The intruder thus obtained over 2300 
unique, full payment card numbers—including names, physical addresses, CVVs, and expiration 
dates. 

19. 

On March 29, 2016, an intruder used the user ID and password of a valid 

distributor account to upload more malicious code.  The intruder introduced this code through 
the web portal of one InfoTrax client, but the intruder was still able to access another client’s 
environment because the intruder’s malicious code gave the intruder elevated access.  The 
intruder then uploaded malicious code to collect information from that client’s website again, 
including newly submitted full names, payment card numbers, expiration dates, and CVVs.  

Page 4  of 6  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
INJURY TO CONSUMERS AND BUSINESSES 

20. 

Breached personal information, such as that stored in InfoTrax’s system, is often 

used to commit identity theft and fraud.  For example, identity thieves use stolen names, 
addresses, and SSNs to apply for credit cards in the victim’s name.  When the identity thief fails 
to pay credit card bills, the victim’s credit suffers.  InfoTrax’s breaches affected distributors and 
end consumers for several multi-level marketers, including dōTERRA, XanGo, and LifeVantage. 

21. 

Similarly, stolen financial information, such as credit card numbers, expiration 

dates, and security codes that InfoTrax holds, can be used to commit fraud.  Specifically, a thief 
could make unauthorized purchases using stolen credit card information. 

22. 

As of September 2016, AllClear ID, Inc. (“AllClear”), the third-party call center 
retained by one InfoTrax client to assist with breach response, had received over 280 reports of 
alleged fraud from that client’s distributors and end consumers, including 238 complaints of 
unauthorized credit card charges, 34 complaints of new credit lines opened, 15 complaints of tax 
fraud, and 1 complaint of misuse of information for employment purposes.  In addition, that 
client received reports of potential fraud from approximately 22 distributors and end consumers. 

23. 

Even if identity theft and fraud do not occur immediately after a breach, a breach 

of personal information such as that stored in InfoTrax’s system makes identity theft and fraud 
likely.  

24. 

The breaches of personal information imposed costs, such as handling breach 

response communications, identifying affected consumers, and responding to consumer 
complaints, on some of InfoTrax’s clients.  InfoTrax notified all of its clients of the breaches so 
they could respond appropriately.  For example, between March 2016 and April 2016, one 
InfoTrax client sent out breach notifications to payment card networks, banks, credit reporting 
agencies, law enforcement, state regulators, distributors, and end consumers, and it hired counsel 
and security experts to investigate the breaches. 

25. 

Respondents’ failure to provide reasonable security for the personal information 

of distributors and end consumers has caused or is likely to cause substantial injury to consumers 
in the form of fraud, identity theft, monetary loss, and time spent remedying the problem. 

26. 

Distributors and end consumers had no way of independently knowing about 

Respondents’ security failures and could not reasonably have avoided possible harms from such 
failures. 

VIOLATION OF THE FTC ACT 

Count 1 – Unfairness: Failure to Employ Reasonable Data Security Practices 

Page 5  of 6  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
27. 

As described in Paragraphs 10 to 26, Respondents’ failure to employ reasonable 

data security practices to protect personal information—including names, addresses, SSNs, other 
government identifiers, and financial account information—caused or is likely to cause 
substantial injury to consumers that is not outweighed by countervailing benefits to consumers or 
competition and is not reasonably avoidable by consumers themselves.  This practice was, and is, 
an unfair act or practice. 

28. 

The acts and practices of Respondents as alleged in this complaint constitute 

unfair acts or practices in or affecting commerce in violation of Section 5(a) of the Federal Trade 
Commission Act, 15 U.S.C § 45(a). 

THEREFORE, the Federal Trade Commission this thirtieth day of December 2019, has 

issued this complaint against Respondents. 

By the Commission. 

SEAL: 
ISSUED:  December 30, 2019 

April J. Tabor 
Acting Secretary 

Page 6 of 6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
