UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
BEFORE THE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION  

192 3011 

COMMISSIONERS: 
                                             Noah Joshua Phillips 

Joseph J. Simons, Chairman 

                                             Rebecca Kelly Slaughter 

Christine S. Wilson 

Rohit Chopra 

In the Matter of 

        DOCKET NO. C-4718 

TAPPLOCK, INC., a corporation. 

COMPLAINT 

The Federal Trade Commission (“Commission”), having reason to believe that Tapplock, 
Inc. (“Respondent” or “Tapplock”) has violated the provisions of the Federal Trade Commission 
Act, and it appearing to the Commission that this proceeding is in the public interest, alleges:  

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

Respondent Tapplock, Inc. is a Canadian corporation with its principal office or place of 
business at 121 Richmond Street West, Toronto, Ontario M5H 2K1, Canada. 

The acts or practices of Respondent alleged in this complaint have been in or affecting 
commerce, as “commerce” is defined in Section 4 of the Federal Trade Commission Act 
and constitute “deceptive acts or practices involving foreign commerce” as set forth in 
Section 5 of the FTC Act.   

RESPONDENT’S BUSINESS PRACTICES 

Respondent is an Internet of Things (“IoT”) company that, among other things, sells 
Internet-connected, fingerprint-enabled padlocks (“smart locks”) to U.S. consumers.  
Respondent’s smart locks interact with a companion mobile application (“app”) that U.S. 
users are able to download onto their mobile devices.  This app logs usernames, e-mail 
addresses, profile photos, location history, and the precise geolocation of a user’s smart 
lock, and it allows users to lock and unlock their smart locks when they are within 
Bluetooth range.     

Respondent designs the smart locks it sells to U.S. consumers, is responsible for 
remediating security vulnerabilities and other flaws associated with those locks, and 
directly or through its distributors markets and advertises its locks to U.S. consumers.   

1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

Respondent advertises to U.S. consumers through its website, www.tapplock.com, and 
has previously advertised through the online crowd funding website Indiegogo.com.  
These websites advertised Respondent’s smart locks in U.S. dollars.   

Further, Respondent contracted with a U.S.-based third-party service provider to fulfill 
orders and ship its products to U.S. consumers. 

Respondent shipped its devices to its service provider’s U.S.-based warehouse in order to 
fulfill orders to U.S. customers.  Respondent also referenced the U.S.-based warehouse in 
public statements to customers (e.g., “Our warehouse is in New Jersey”). 

RESPONDENT’S DECEPTIVE  
SECURITY PRACTICES 

Respondent advertised its smart locks to consumers as “Bold. Sturdy. Secure.”  

Respondent’s advertisements touted that its “secure” smart locks were also: 

• 

• 

• 

“strengthened with double-layered lock design;”  

designed with “anti-shim and anti-pry technologies” (Shimming refers to 
inserting a foreign object into the latch, and prying refers to using a lever to force 
open a padlock); and  

designed to be “unbreakable,” as follows, 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10. 

Respondent makes additional claims about its information security practices in its privacy 
policy, accessible online to its U.S. customers, stating in part: 

To protect your personal information, we take reasonable precautions and 
follow industry best practices to make sure it is not inappropriately lost, 
misused, accessed, disclosed, altered or destroyed. 

11. 

12. 

Respondent also claims that users can share access to their locks with an unlimited 
number of other people, and that users can subsequently limit or revoke such shared 
access. 

Despite these claims, Respondent’s smart locks were not secure.  In June 2018, three 
separate security researchers identified critical physical and electronic vulnerabilities 
with Respondent’s smart locks. 

13.  With respect to physical security, one security researcher demonstrated that he could 

unlock some of Respondent’s smart locks within a matter of seconds, simply by 
unscrewing the back panel.   

14. 

Researchers also discovered reasonably foreseeable electronic security vulnerabilities that 
could have been avoided if Respondent had implemented simple, low-cost steps.  For 
example: 

a. 

b. 

c. 

One vulnerability in Respondent’s API allowed researchers to bypass the account 
authentication process in order to gain full access to the accounts of all Tapplock 
users and their personal information, including usernames, e-mail addresses, 
profile photos, location history, and precise geolocation of smart locks.  A 
researcher who logged in with a valid user credential could then access another 
user’s account without being re-directed back to the login page, thereby allowing 
the researcher to circumvent Respondent’s authentication procedures altogether. 

A second vulnerability allowed researchers to lock and unlock any nearby 
Tapplock smart lock.  Because Respondent failed to encrypt the Bluetooth 
communication between the lock and the app, researchers were able to easily 
discover and replicate how Respondent generated the private keys necessary to 
lock and unlock user’s smart locks. 

A third vulnerability prevented users from effectively revoking access to their 
smart lock once they had provided other users access to that lock.  This 
vulnerability allowed the researchers to “sniff” data packets for the information 
necessary to authenticate their access to the lock.  With that information, 
researchers were able to continue accessing the lock even after their access had 
been revoked. 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15. 

Contrary to the statements described in Paragraphs 8-11, Respondent did not take 
reasonable measures to secure its locks, or take reasonable precautions or follow industry 
best practices for protecting consumers’ personal information.  In fact, Respondent did 
not have a security program  prior to the discovery of the vulnerabilities described in 
Paragraph 13 and 14.  For example, Respondent:  

a. 

b. 

c. 

d. 

failed to identify reasonably foreseeable risks to the security of its smart locks or 
the security of customers’ personal accounts, such as through vulnerability or 
penetration testing, and assess the sufficiency of any safeguards in place to 
control those risks; 

failed to employ sufficient measures to detect and prevent users from bypassing 
the authentication procedures in Respondent’s API to gain access to other users’ 
accounts; 

failed to adopt and implement written data security standards, policies, 
procedures, or practices; and 

failed to implement adequate privacy and security guidance or training for its 
employees responsible for designing, testing, overseeing, and approving software 
specifications and requirements. 

16. 

As a result of these failures, consumers’ personal information was exposed, as described 
in Paragraph 14, and consumers’ personal property was put at risk. 

VIOLATIONS OF THE FTC ACT 

Deceptive Representation Regarding Security 
(Count I) 

17. 

18. 

Through the means described in Paragraphs 8-9, Respondent has represented, directly or 
indirectly, expressly or by implication, that its smart locks were secure.  

In truth and in fact, as described in Paragraphs 12-16, Respondent’s smart locks were not 
secure.  Therefore, the representation set forth in Paragraph 17 is false or misleading. 

Deceptive Representation Regarding Protection of Personal Information 
(Count II) 

19. 

Through the means described in Paragraph 10, Respondent has represented, directly or 
indirectly, expressly or by implication, that it took reasonable precautions and followed 
industry best practices to protect the personal information provided by consumers.  

20. 

In truth and in fact, as described in Paragraphs 14-16, Respondent failed to take 
reasonable precautions and follow industry best practices to protect the personal 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
information provided by consumers.  Therefore, the representation set forth in Paragraph 
19 is false or misleading.  

Violation of Section 5 

21. 

The acts and practices of Respondent as alleged in this complaint constitute deceptive 
acts or practices in or affecting commerce in violation of Section 5(a) of the Federal 
Trade Commission Act. 

THEREFORE, the Federal Trade Commission this eighteenth day of May, 2020, has 

issued this complaint against Respondent.  

By the Commission.  

SEAL:  

April J. Tabor 
Acting Secretary 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
