UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION 

192 3167 

COMMISSIONERS: 

Joseph J. Simons, Chairman 
Noah Joshua Phillips 
Rohit Chopra 
Rebecca Kelly Slaughter 
Christine S. Wilson 

________________________________________________ 

In the Matter of 

ZOOM VIDEO COMMUNICATIONS, INC., 
a corporation, d/b/a ZOOM. 

DOCKET NO.   C-4731 

________________________________________________ 

COMPLAINT 

The Federal Trade Commission, having reason to believe that Zoom Video 

Communications, Inc., a corporation (“Respondent”), has violated the provisions of the Federal 
Trade Commission Act, and it appearing to the Commission that this proceeding is in the public 
interest, alleges: 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

Respondent Zoom Video Communications, Inc. (“Zoom”) is a Delaware corporation with 
its principal office or place of business at 55 Almaden Boulevard, 6th Floor, San Jose, 
California, 95113. 

The acts and practices of Respondent Zoom alleged in this complaint have been in or 
affecting commerce, as “commerce” is defined in Section 4 of the Federal Trade 
Commission Act. 

Respondent’s Business Practices 

Founded in 2011, Zoom is a videoconferencing platform provider that provides 
customers with videoconferencing services and various add-on services, such as cloud 
storage.  Zoom’s 2019 annual revenue was $622.7 million; its Q1 2020 revenue was 
$328.2 million.  Zoom has over 2,000 employees. 

Zoom’s core product is the Zoom “Meeting,” which is a platform for one-on-one and 
group videoconferences.  Zoom Meetings also have the capability, among other things, 
for accompanying chat messages, screen sharing, and the recording of videoconferences.  
Zoom offers certain customers the option to host Zoom’s videoconferencing services on 
the customer’s internal network through its “Connecter” product. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

A Zoom Meeting is comprised of a host who organizes the Meeting and the individual 
attendees who participate in those video meetings.  To schedule and host a Zoom 
Meeting, a user must create a Zoom account and download Zoom’s software application 
(“Zoom App”) for desktop or laptop (e.g., Windows or Mac) or mobile (e.g., iOS or 
Android). 

By creating a Zoom account, a user can create and host a videoconference and invite 
others to attend by providing them with a hyperlink, conference identifier, or telephone 
dial-in instructions.  To join a Meeting, individual attendees typically download the 
Zoom App, but do not need to create a Zoom account.  Rather than download the Zoom 
App, attendees can also join a Meeting through their browser or by telephone.  Attendees 
who join a Meeting through their browser or by telephone do not have access to all of the 
same features that are available through the Zoom App. 

Zoom offers its videoconferencing services through a number of monthly and annual 
subscription plans.  Zoom offers a free basic videoconferencing plan that includes 
unlimited one-on-one and group videoconferencing for up to 40 minutes and 100 
participants.  It also offers three tiers of paid plans based on the number of features and 
host licenses provided, with minimum monthly subscription fees of $14.99 (Pro), 
$199.90 (Business), and $999.50 (Enterprise). 

Zoom routinely collects certain information about users, including: first and last name; 
email address; user name and password; approximate location; date of birth; technical 
information about users’ devices, network, and internet connection; and in the case of a 
paid subscription, billing address and payment card information of the account holder.  
Zoom also collects and stores event details for all Zoom Meetings, including the date, 
time, and length of Meetings; the Meeting participants’ user names; and each 
participant’s answers to any polling questions asked during a Meeting.  Finally, Zoom 
also collects and stores information shared while using the service, such as recorded 
Meetings that users store on Zoom’s cloud storage, voice mails, chat and instant 
messages, files, and whiteboards. 

As of July 2019, Zoom had approximately 600,000 paid customers of its 
videoconferencing services.  Approximately 88% of those customers were small 
businesses with ten or fewer employees. 

In December 2019, approximately 10 million people worldwide participated in a Zoom 
Meeting each day.  By April 2020, that number had skyrocketed to 300 million daily 
meeting participants worldwide, in large part due to an increased demand for 
videoconferencing services as a result of social distancing recommendations and local 
government stay-at-home orders related to the novel coronavirus pandemic.  In addition 
to Zoom’s traditional business customers, individuals, doctors, mental health 
professionals, schools, and others began to use Zoom’s videoconferencing services in 
greater numbers. 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11. 

12. 

Users share sensitive information during Zoom meetings.  This can include financial 
information, health information, proprietary business information, and trade secrets.  For 
example, Zoom has been used for therapy sessions, Alcoholics Anonymous meetings, 
and telehealth appointments. 

As reflected in Zoom’s Security Guide, the security of users’ Zoom communications 
relies not only on its Meeting encryption or similar features, but also on its internal 
network security.  Malicious actors who infiltrate Zoom’s internal network could gain 
access to Zoom’s administrative controls and compromise Zoom users’ personal 
information.  Despite this, Zoom, among other things, has: 

a. 

b. 

c. 

d. 

e. 

f. 

g. 

h. 

Failed to implement a training program on secure software development 
principles; 

Failed to test, audit, assess, or review its applications for security vulnerabilities at 
certain key points, such as prior to releasing software updates, including failing to 
ensure that its software is free from commonly known or reasonably foreseeable 
attacks, such as “Structured Query Language” (SQL) injection attacks and 
“Cross-Site Scripting” (XSS) attacks; 

Failed to monitor service providers or other contractors who have access to 
Zoom’s network; 

Failed to secure remote access to its networks and systems through multi-factor 
authentication or similar technology; 

Failed to use readily available measures to safeguard against anomalous activity 
and/or cybersecurity events across all of Zoom’s systems, networks, and assets 
within those networks, including monitoring all of Zoom’s networks and systems 
at discrete intervals, properly configuring firewalls, and segmenting its networks; 

Failed to implement a systematic process for incident response;   

Failed to implement a systematic process for inventorying, classifying, and 
deleting user data stored on Zoom’s network; and 

Been a year or more behind in patching software in its commercial environment. 

Respondent’s Deceptive and Unfair Privacy and Security Practices 

13. 

Zoom has made numerous, prominent representations touting the strength of the privacy 
and security measures it employs to protect users’ personal information.  For example, 
Zoom has claimed on its website, in Security Guides, and in its privacy policy, that it 
takes “security seriously,” that it “places privacy and security as the highest priority,” and 
that it “is committed to protecting your privacy.”  

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

The privacy and security of video communications, including the level of encryption used 
to secure those communications, is important to users and their decisions about which 
videoconferencing platform to use, the price to pay for such services, and/or how they use 
those services.  In numerous blog posts, Zoom has pointed to its security as a reason for 
potential customers to use Zoom’s videoconferencing services.  In a January 2017 blog 
post, “Zoom: The Fastest Growing App on Okta,” Zoom specifically cited, based on 
customer feedback, its security feature of “end-to-end AES 256 bit encryption” as 
important to businesses and one of the reasons for Zoom’s growth. 

Zoom’s Deceptive End-to-End Encryption Claims 

End-to-end encryption is a method of securing communications where an encrypted 
communication can only be deciphered by the communicating parties.  No other persons 
can decrypt the communications because they do not possess the necessary cryptographic 
keys to do so.  End-to-end encryption is intended to prevent communications from being 
read or modified by anyone other than the true sender and recipient(s). 

Since at least June 2016, Zoom has represented in its App, on its website, in its Security 
Guides, in its HIPAA Compliance Guide, in blog posts, and in direct communications 
with customers, that it offered end-to-end encryption to secure videoconference 
communications between hosts and attendees during Zoom Meetings. 

For example, Zoom has represented that it provided end-to-end encryption in the Zoom 
App.  When a user hovered over a green padlock in the top left corner of a Meeting, the 
user would see a popup stating, “Zoom is using an end to end encrypted connection.”  

Zoom also has represented that it employed end-to-end encryption for Zoom Meetings on 
the “meetings” and “security” pages of its public website, available at zoom.us/meetings 
and zoom.us/security.  For example, on its “meetings” webpage, Zoom claimed that it 
offered end-to-end encryption for “all meetings”: 

Built  for modern teams 

H D video and audio 

Built-In collaboration t ools 

Meet secvrely 

Bri ng H D video and audio  to your meetillg'i 

Mul ti ple participants can sha re their screens 

End-to-end encryption for all meetings. role 

wi t h  support for up to 1000 video 

participants and 49 videos on screen 

simult:ineous6y :ind co-annota te  for a more 

b.ised user security, password  protection. 

interactive meetilli:. 

waiti ni rooms. and place attendee Dfl hold 

G  Recarling ;md t r;m'iC ripts 

Stre;imlined G1lendari ng 

Te..im Chat 

Record your meetings locally o r to the  cloud. 

Support scheduling o r starting meetings from 

Chat wit h groups. sean::hable  histOJy, 

with  So!"archablt'  tr.lMCript s._ 

Outlook. Gm ail , or iiD,L 

integra te d tile sharing.  and 10 )'l!'at archive_ 

Easily escalate into ] '. 1 or ~up c-,lls. 

19. 

Zoom has made similar representations in its Security Guides, which are available 
through its public website at www.zoom.us/security.  In its June 2019 Security Guide, 
Zoom explained that Meeting hosts could “Enable an end-to-end (E2E) encrypted 
meeting.”  Zoom likewise claimed in its June 2016 Security Guide that Meeting hosts 
could “Secure a meeting with end-to-end encryption (E2E).”  Zoom also claimed that it 
used “industry-standard end-to-end” encryption with AES 256-bit encryption as a way 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
for its healthcare customers to comply with the Health Insurance Portability and 
Accountability Act (HIPAA)’s Security Rule.  The HIPAA Security Rule applies to 
certain healthcare entities and contains federally mandated standards for protecting 
individuals’ electronic personal health information. 

20. 

For example, on the “healthcare” webpage of Zoom’s website, available at 
zoom.us/healthcare, Zoom claimed that its customers could “Achieve HIPAA (signed 
BAA) and PIPEDA/PHIPA compliance with complete end-to-end 256-bit AES 
encryption.”  Zoom similarly explained in its June 2016 and July 2017 HIPAA 
Compliance Guides, available through its public website at zoom.us/healthcare, that its 
end-to-end encryption, among other security features, supported its healthcare customers’ 
compliance with the HIPAA Security Rule: 

Security and  Encryption 

Only members invited  by account administrators  can  host Zoom  meetings in  accounts with  multiple 

members. The  host  controls  meeting  attendance  through  the  use  of meeting  IDs  and  passwords. 

Each  meeting  can  only have  one  host.  The  host can  screen  share  or  lock screen  sharing.  The  host 

has  complete  control  of the  meeting  and  meeting  attendees,  with  features  such  as  lock  meeting, 

expel  attendees, mute/unmute all,  lock screen sharing, and  end  meeting. 

Zoom  employs industry-standard end-to-end Advanced  Encryption Standard (AES)  encryption  using 

256-bit keys to  protect meetings. Zoom  encryption  fully  complies with  HIPAA Security Standards to 

ensure the security and  privacy of patient data. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

In a January 2019 white paper entitled “End to End Encryption,” Zoom represented that it 
offered end-to-end encryption for Zoom Meetings as an “added layer of application 
security for Zoom meetings, webinars, and chat (instant messaging) sessions.”  Zoom 
explained that end-to-end encryption meant that Zoom Meetings, webinars, and chat 
sessions could only be decrypted by “authenticated participant(s) who have the key 
required for decryption.”  The white paper also explained that video, audio, and screen 
sharing were all “protected with the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) 256-bit 
algorithm.”   

Zoom specifically touted its level of encryption as a reason for customers and potential 
customers to use Zoom’s videoconferencing services in numerous blog posts on its 
website.  For example, in an April 24, 2017 blog post, “Zoom Reporting Live from 
American Telemedicine Association 2017,” Zoom promoted its “End-to-end AES 256-bit 
encryption of all meeting data and instant messages” as a reason for healthcare providers 
to use Zoom as their telehealth videoconferencing solution. 

Additionally, in response to inquiries from customers or potential customers who 
contacted Zoom directly to ask about Zoom’s security practices and the level of 
encryption it employed for Zoom Meetings, Zoom informed them that it offers AES 256-
bit, end-to-end encryption and directed them to its Security Guide that, as described 
above, made similar representations. 

5 

 
 
  
         
                   
 
 
 
 
24. 

In fact, Zoom did not provide end-to-end encryption for any Zoom Meeting that was 
conducted outside of Zoom’s “Connecter” product (which are hosted on a customer’s 
own servers), because Zoom’s servers—including some located in China—maintain the 
cryptographic keys that would allow Zoom to access the content of its customers’ Zoom 
Meetings.  Zoom has acknowledged that its Meetings were generally incapable of end-to-
end encryption in an April 2020 blog post by its Chief Product Officer: 

In light of recent int erest in our encryptio n prac t ices, we want to st art by apolog izing fo r the conf usion 

we  have caused by incorrectly suggesting t hat Zoom meet ings we re capable of using end -to-end 

encryption. Zoo m has always st rived to use encrypt ion to prot ect content in as many scenarios as 

possible. and in that spirit. we  use d t he t erm end -t o -end encrypt ion. While we  never intended to 

deceive any of our customers. we recog nize  tha t t he re is a disc repancy bet wee n t he co mmonly 

acce pt ed def init ion of end -to -end encrypt ion and how we were using it. This blog is intended t o rect ify 

t hat discrepancy and clarif y exact ly how we enc rypt the cont ent t hat  moves across our network . 

25. 

26. 

27. 

https://blog.zoom.us/wordpress/wpcontent/uploads/2020/04/zoom-servers-news.jpg. 

Zoom’s Deceptive Claims Regarding Level of Encryption 

Encrypting communications with the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) and a 256-bit 
encryption key can be an effective way to secure communications and prevent 
eavesdropping.  The 256-bit encryption key refers to the length of the key needed to 
decrypt the communications.  Generally speaking, a longer encryption key provides more 
confidentiality protection than shorter keys because there are more possible key 
combinations, thereby making it harder to find the correct key and crack the encryption.   

Since at least June 2015, Zoom has made numerous and prominent claims that it 
encrypted Zoom Meetings, in part, by using AES, with a 256-bit encryption key (“AES 
256-bit Encryption” or “256-bit Encryption”). 

For example, in a June 2015 blog post entitled “Why Zoom’s Security Features Matter 
for your Business,” available at https://blog.zoom.us/wordpress/2015/06/17/why-zooms-
security-matter-for-business/, Zoom explained that encryption was important for video 
communications because people “discuss sensitive things in unplanned moments,” and 
touted “Zoom’s use of AES 256 encryption” as making it “it impossible for a hacker 
to grab anything outside of a hopelessly garbled transmission…” (emphasis in 
original). 

28. 

On the “security” page of Zoom’s website, available at zoom.us/security, Zoom also has 
claimed that it used 256-bit Encryption to protect user data: 

P rot ectin g  yo u r  D a t a 

Communicatio n s  are estab lished  using 

256-bit T LS  encryption and all shar ed 

conten t  ca n  be encrypted  us ing AES-

256 e n cryp tion. 

6 

 
 
          
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
29. 

Zoom likewise claimed that it uses 256-bit Encryption in its Security Guide and in its 
online Help Center.  For example, Zoom’s June 2019 Security Guide stated, “Webinar 
contents and screen sharing are secured using AES 256 and communicate over secured 
network using 256-bit encryption standard.”  In Zoom’s online Help Center, available at 
https://support.zoom.us/hc/en-us/articles/201362723-Encryption-for-Meetings, Zoom 
answered a “Frequently Asked Question[]” about its Meeting encryption by explaining, 
in part, that its Meetings were encrypted “by default” with AES 256-bit Encryption: 

Encryption  for Meetings 

Overview 

By  default, Zoom encrypts  in - meeting and  in - webinar presentation  content at the appl ication 

layer using TLS  1.2 with A dvan ced  Encrypti o n  Standard  (AES)  256 - bit algorit hm  fo r  the 

Desktop Cl ient. 

30. 

31. 

32. 

In fact, Zoom used a lower level of encryption for securing Zoom Meetings, AES 128-bit 
encryption in Electronic Code Book (“ECB”) mode.  AES 128-bit encryption uses a 
shorter encryption key than AES 256-bit Encryption, and therefore provides less 
confidentiality protection because there are fewer possible values for the 128-bit key than 
for a 256-bit key.  Reflecting the comparative strength of AES 256-bit Encryption and 
AES 128-bit Encryption, the National Security Agency has reported that AES 256-bit 
Encryption may be used for securing “TOP SECRET” materials, whereas AES 128-bit 
encryption may only be used for securing “SECRET” communications. 

Zoom’s Deceptive Claims Regarding  
Secure Storage for Zoom Meeting Recordings 

Zoom offers customers the ability to record their Zoom Meetings and store such 
recordings on either the host’s local device or, for paying customers, in Zoom’s secure 
cloud storage (“Cloud Recordings”). 

In Zoom’s June 2019 Security Guide, Zoom claims that Cloud Recordings are processed 
and stored in Zoom’s cloud “after the meeting has ended,” where they “are stored 
encrypted as well.”  Zoom’s June 2016 Security Guide similarly claimed that Cloud 
Recordings “are processed and securely stored in Zoom’s cloud once the meeting has 
ended.” 

33. 

In fact, recorded Meetings are kept on Zoom’s servers for up to 60 days, unencrypted, 
before Zoom transfers the recordings to its secure cloud storage, where they are then 
stored encrypted. 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Zoom’s Unfair Circumvention of a  
Third-Party Privacy and Security Safeguard 

34. 

35. 

36. 

37. 

38. 

39. 

In July 2018, Zoom updated its App for Mac computers by deploying a web server onto 
users’ computers—without adequate user notice or consent—in order to circumvent a 
security and privacy safeguard in Apple’s Safari browser.  Specifically, Apple had 
updated its Safari browser to help defend its users from malicious actors and popular 
malware by requiring interaction with a dialogue box when a website or link attempts to 
launch an outside App. 

As a result of the new browser safeguard, users who clicked on a link to join a Zoom 
Meeting would receive an additional prompt that read, “Do you want to allow this page to 
open ‘zoom.us’?”  If the user selected “Allow,” the browser would connect the user to the 
Meeting, while clicking “Cancel” would end the interaction and prevent the Zoom App 
from launching. 

To avoid this dialogue box, Zoom issued a manual update in July 2018 for its Zoom App 
for Mac desktop computers that secretly deployed a web server, called the 
“ZoomOpener,” as a means to bypass the new privacy and security safeguard. 

The ZoomOpener web server was installed on users’ Mac computers and operated in the 
computer’s background.  When it detected a request to join a Zoom Meeting, the web 
server bypassed the new Safari browser safeguard to directly launch the Zoom App.  It 
would then automatically join the user to the Zoom Meeting and, if the user had not 
changed her default video settings, automatically activate the user’s webcam.  Zoom 
automatically activated users’ webcams immediately upon their joining a Meeting unless 
users changed their default video settings by logging into their Zoom account, going to 
their “preferences,” clicking on “video,” and then finding and clicking on the box, “Turn 
off my video when joining a meeting.” 

The ZoomOpener web server harmed consumers by limiting the intended benefit of a 
privacy and security safeguard provided by their Safari browser.  Zoom did not 
implement any compensating measures to replace the privacy and security protections 
that it had circumvented, nor did Zoom take any steps to address the risks that malicious 
actors could exploit the ZoomOpener web server and harm users.  Without the 
circumvented Safari safeguard, one wrong click could expose consumers to remote video 
surveillance by strangers through their computers’ webcams. 

For example, malicious actors could exploit this vulnerability by using a phishing attack, 
a common form of cyberattack that typically entails a criminal sending out thousands of 
emails that pretend to be from a legitimate source in order to direct recipients to a bogus 
website where the criminal can capture personal information or engage in other malicious 
activity.  Here, the phishing email could trick consumers into clicking on an innocuous-
looking link that does not appear to be a Zoom Meeting invite.  This link could then 
direct the consumer to an otherwise benign-looking website that has a Zoom Meeting 
embedded in it.  Zoom Meetings can be embedded in websites through the use of the 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
iframe HTML tool, which allows a segment of a website to display content from another 
source without leaving the original website (such as a YouTube video playing on a host’s 
website). 

40.  Without the consumer taking any additional steps, the ZoomOpener web server would 

automatically join the consumer to the Zoom Meeting and activate her webcam—without 
the user’s consent and perhaps without even realizing it.  Merely leaving the website 
would not exit the Meeting or disable the webcam.  Had Zoom not circumvented the 
Safari safeguard, users would have been alerted to the Zoom Meeting and would have 
had to give their permission before being joined to the Meeting. 

41. 

42. 

43. 

44. 

45. 

In addition to bypassing the Safari browser safeguard, the ZoomOpener web server also 
harmed users by introducing two additional security vulnerabilities.  First, the web server 
exposed some users to a potential Remote Control Execution (RCE) attack because the 
ZoomOpener web server would download and install software updates, including 
potentially malicious code, without properly validating that it was downloading the 
software from a trusted source.  This code could then allow the malicious actor to execute 
code on the user’s computer.  On July 9, 2019, Zoom posted information about this 
vulnerability on its website, available at https://support.zoom.us/hc/en-
us/articles/360031245072-Security-CVE-2019-13567, where it characterized the 
vulnerability as having “High Severity.”  Second, the ZoomOpener web server exposed 
users to a local denial of service (“DoS”) attack where a hacker could potentially target a 
Zoom user with an endless loop of invalid Meeting join requests that would effectively 
cause the targeted machine to lock up. 

As discussed in further detail in Paragraphs 49-52 below, Zoom did not notify users that 
its manual software update would install the ZoomOpener web server on their Mac 
computers.  Nor did Zoom provide users with any information about the web server’s 
operation, including the fact that it would bypass a Safari privacy and security safeguard. 

In addition to bypassing the Safari privacy and security safeguard to launch Zoom 
Meetings, the ZoomOpener web server had a second function: to reinstall the Zoom App.  
Specifically, if a Mac user deleted the Zoom App in accord with Apple’s instructions for 
deleting apps, the ZoomOpener web server would nevertheless remain on users’ 
computers.  If the user later clicked on a Zoom Meeting invite or visited a website with 
an embedded Zoom Meeting, the web server would secretly reinstall the Zoom App—
without any user interaction—and automatically join the user to the Meeting. 

Because the ZoomOpener web server remained and continued to function on users’ 
computers even after the Zoom App was deleted, the vulnerabilities described in 
Paragraphs 39-41 persisted after users deleted the Zoom App. 

Zoom’s deployment of the ZoomOpener web server—without adequate notice or 
consent—to circumvent a browser privacy and security safeguard, while also exposing 
users to additional security vulnerabilities as described in Paragraph 41, reflects Zoom’s 
poor privacy and security practices.  As described more fully in Paragraph 12, Zoom’s 

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
46. 

47. 

48. 

49. 

50. 

51. 

security policies and practices have been inconsistently applied across its systems, and it 
has lacked an effective training program on secure software development principles. 

The ZoomOpener web server’s vulnerabilities impacted over 3.8 million U.S. consumers 
who had the ZoomOpener web server secretly installed on their Mac computers. 

After a security researcher published information about the web server in early July 2019, 
Zoom issued a patch to remove the ZoomOpener web server from users’ computers.  A 
day later, Apple, Inc. issued a silent operating system update to protect Mac users from 
the ZoomOpener web server and automatically removed the web server from their 
computers.  Although Zoom still allows customers to embed Meetings on their own 
websites, Zoom introduced a new video preview screen so that users would be able to see 
their own webcam stream before joining a Meeting. 

Consumers could not reasonably have avoided the harms resulting from the secret 
deployment of the ZoomOpener web server.  Zoom did not inform users that it was 
installing the ZoomOpener web server on their computer or otherwise provide any 
information about its operation, and it did not inform users that the web server would 
remain on their computers after they uninstalled the Zoom App.  Consumers also had no 
way of independently knowing about the web server’s security vulnerabilities.  This 
substantial injury is not offset by countervailing benefits to consumers or competition. 

Zoom’s Deceptive Deployment of the ZoomOpener Web Server 

The ZoomOpener web server was deployed as part of a manual software update for 
Zoom’s Mac App on July 1, 2018 (“Web Server Update”).  Within the Zoom App, Zoom 
notifies users of software updates in several ways: a pop up window; a blue bar that 
informs users that new updates are available; and through a “check for updates” feature 
available through a drop down menu under the user’s profile icon. 

The pop-up notification and “check for updates” feature both provide users with “Release 
Notes” that give information about the update, such as a listing of new and enhanced 
features included in the update as well as any resolved issues, such as bug fixes.  They 
also include an “Update” button for users to click and manually update their software. 

As reflected in the Release Notes shown below, Zoom told users that the Web Server 
Update would fix minor bugs.  Zoom failed to disclose, or disclose adequately, that the 
update would install a local hosted web server, that the web server would circumvent a 
Safari browser privacy and security safeguard, or that it would remain on users’ 
computers even after they had deleted the App: 

July 1,  2018 Version  4.1.27695.0702 
Download Type : Manual 

Resolved  issues 

•  Minor bug  fixes 

10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                    
 
 
52. 

The omitted information was not available to users from any other source, and would 
have been material to their decision on whether or not to install the update.  Indeed, when 
Zoom announced in early July 2019 that it would update its software to remove the 
ZoomOpener web server, it reported that it was doing so in response to customer 
feedback. 

53. 

For example, some consumers made the following public comments about Zoom’s secret 
deployment of the ZoomOpener web server: 

• 

• 

• 

“I think they [Zoom] need to be made aware that this isn't acceptable…I do not 
believe this is a fair trade-off - allowing any arbitrary web site local control of 
privileged software installed on my machine - because Safari offers a security 
prompt (specifically so that any arbitrary web site does not gain control of 
privileged software on my machine).  I will be switching 
~/.zoomus/ZoomOpener.app off, and considering other options until it has been 
fixed.”  

“I liked Zoom when I used it a couple of times, but the reinstall ‘feature’ [of the 
ZoomOpener web server] is a huge violation of my trust.  Software from the 
company behind it will not touch my system anymore.”  

“I cancelled my subscription because of [Zoom’s installation of the ZoomOpener 
web server]… This should not be considered OK.”  

VIOLATIONS OF THE FTC ACT 

Count I 
Deceptive Representation Regarding End-to-End Encryption 

54. 

55. 

As alleged in Paragraphs 14-23, Zoom has represented, directly or indirectly, expressly or 
by implication, that it employed end-to-end encryption to secure the content of 
communications between participants using Zoom’s video conferencing service. 

In fact, as described in Paragraph 24, Zoom did not employ end-to-end encryption to 
secure the content of communications between participants using Zoom’s video 
conferencing service.  Therefore, the representation set forth in Paragraph 54 is false or 
misleading. 

Count II 
Deceptive Representation Regarding Level of Encryption 

56. 

As alleged in Paragraphs 25-29, Zoom has represented, directly or indirectly, expressly or 
by implication, that it employed 256-bit Encryption to secure the content of 
communications between participants using Zoom’s video conferencing service. 

11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
57. 

In fact, as described in Paragraph 30, Zoom did not employ 256-bit Encryption to secure 
the content of communications between participants using Zoom’s video conferencing 
service.  Therefore, the representation set forth in Paragraph 56 is false or misleading.  

Count III 
Deceptive Representation Regarding 
Secured Cloud Storage for Recorded Meetings 

58. 

59. 

60. 

61. 

62. 

63. 

As alleged in Paragraphs 31-32, Zoom has represented, directly or indirectly, expressly or 
by implication, that recorded Meetings are stored encrypted in Zoom’s cloud storage 
immediately after a Meeting has ended. 

In fact, as set forth in Paragraph 33, recorded Meetings are not stored encrypted in 
Zoom’s cloud storage immediately after a Meeting has ended.  Therefore, the 
representation set forth in Paragraph 58 is false or misleading. 

Count IV 
Unfair Circumvention of Third-Party Privacy and Security Safeguard 

As alleged in Paragraphs 34-48, Zoom installed the ZoomOpener web server, without 
adequate notice or consent, to circumvent a browser privacy and security safeguard and 
did not implement measures to replace the circumvented privacy and security protections. 

Respondent’s actions caused or are likely to cause substantial injury to consumers that 
consumers cannot reasonably avoid and that is not outweighed by countervailing benefits 
to consumers or competition.  Therefore, the practice set forth in Paragraph 60 is an 
unfair act or practice.  

Count V 
Deceptive Failure to Disclose 

As alleged in Paragraph 51, in connection with the advertising, marketing, promotion, 
offering for sale, or sale of its video conferencing products, Respondent represented, 
directly or indirectly, expressly or by implication, that Zoom was updating its Mac App 
in order to resolve minor bug fixes. 

In numerous instances in which Respondent made the representation set forth in 
Paragraph 62, Respondent failed to disclose or disclose adequately that the update would 
deploy a local hosted web server, that the web server would circumvent a Safari browser 
privacy and security safeguard, or that the web server would remain on users’ computers 
even after they had uninstalled the Zoom App. 

64. 

In light of the representation described in Paragraph 62, Respondent’s failure to disclose 
or disclose adequately the material information as set forth in Paragraph 63 constitutes a 
deceptive act or practice in violation of Section 5(a) of the FTC Act, 15 U.S.C. § 45(a). 

12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Violations of the FTC Act 

65. 

The acts and practices of Zoom as alleged in this complaint constitute unfair or deceptive 
acts or practices in or affecting commerce in violation of Section 5(a) of the Federal 
Trade Commission Act, 15 U.S.C. § 45(a). 

THEREFORE, the Federal Trade Commission this nineteenth day of January 2021, has 

issued this Complaint against Respondent. 

By the Commission, Commissioners Chopra and Slaughter dissenting. 

April J. Tabor 
Secretary 

SEAL: 

13 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
