UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
BEFORE THE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION 

1923140 

COMMISSIONERS: 

Joseph J. Simons, Chairman 
Noah Joshua Phillips 
Rohit Chopra 
Rebecca Kelly Slaughter 
Christine S. Wilson 

In the Matter of 

SKYMED INTERNATIONAL, INC., 
      also doing business as SkyMed Travel 

and Car Rental Pro, 
      a Nevada corporation. 

DOCKET NO. C-4732 

COMPLAINT 

The Federal Trade Commission (“Commission”), having reason to believe that SkyMed 

International, Inc., a Nevada corporation, has violated the provisions of the Federal Trade 
Commission Act, 15 U.S.C. § 45(a)(1), and it appearing to the Commission that this proceeding 
is in the public interest, alleges:  

1.

Respondent SkyMed International, Inc. (“Respondent”), also doing business as

SkyMed Travel and as Car Rental Pro, is a Nevada corporation with its principal office or place 
of business at 9089 E. Bahia Drive, Suite 100, Scottsdale, Arizona 85260. 

2.

The acts and practices of Respondent, as alleged in this Complaint, have been in

or affecting commerce, as “commerce” is defined in Section 4 of the Federal Trade Commission 
Act. 

Respondent’s Business Practices 

3.

Respondent advertises, offers for sale, and sells nationwide a wide array of

emergency travel membership plans that cover up to eighteen different emergency travel and 
medical evacuation services for members who sustain serious illnesses or injuries during travel 
in certain geographic areas.  These services include hospital-to-hospital air transportation, 
vehicle return, visitor transportation, repatriation for recuperation near home, medical escort 
flights, and transportation of children. 

1 

4. 

Membership plans provide coverage on a short-term, yearly, or multi-year basis 
for both single members and entire families.  Depending on the term, number of members, and 
the medical evacuation services covered, membership plans cost between $299 and $8,990.   

5. 

Consumers purchase membership plans through either an online application on 

Respondent’s website or a paper application submitted to an authorized sales representative.  In 
both instances, Respondent collects a significant amount of personal information from 
applicants, including name, date of birth, sex, home address, email address, phone number, 
emergency contact information, passport number, and payment card information.   

6. 

Both the online and written applications also mandate that consumers provide 

Respondent with detailed health information—i.e., a list of prescribed medications and medical 
conditions, as well as all hospitalizations in the previous six months.  Consumers cannot 
purchase membership plans without providing Respondent this information.  In fact, in the 
online application, Respondent requires that consumers agree to the following terms and 
conditions: 

7. 

Likewise, the written application includes similar terms and conditions, and 

applicants must give Respondent express permission to obtain their medical records. 

8. 

Thousands of consumers have signed up for Respondent’s membership plans, 
meaning Respondent has collected a trove of personal information, including sensitive health 
information, about these consumers. 

Respondent’s Deceptive HIPAA Seal 

9. 

Respondent has prominently displayed seals on every page of its website.  From 
2014 to April 30, 2019, Respondent displayed a seal—in close proximity to two seals provided 
by third parties—that attested to Respondent’s purported compliance with the Health Insurance 
Portability and Accountability Act (“HIPAA”), a statute that sets forth privacy and information 
security protections for health data.  This seal is circled in red below:    

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10. 

By displaying the “HIPAA Compliance” seal on every page of its website, 

Respondent signaled to consumers that a government agency or other third party had reviewed 
Respondent’s information practices and determined that they met HIPAA’s requirements.  

11. 

In reality, no government agency or other third party had reviewed Respondent’s 

information practices for compliance with HIPAA, let alone determined that the practices met 
the requirements of HIPAA.  Respondent has since admitted that the “seal should not have been 
on the website” and removed the seal from all pages of its website on or around April 30, 2019.  

Respondent’s Information Security Practices  

12. 

Respondent has engaged in a number of practices that failed to provide reasonable 
security for the personal information it collected, including sensitive health information.  Among 
other things, Respondent: 

a. 

b. 

c. 

d. 

e. 

failed to develop, implement, or maintain written organizational 
information security standards, policies, procedures, or practices; 

failed to provide adequate guidance or training for employees or 
third-party contractors regarding information security and safeguarding 
consumers’ personal information; 

stored consumers’ personal information on Respondent’s network and 
databases in plain text, without reasonable data access controls or 
authentication protections; 

failed to assess the risks to the personal information stored on its network 
and databases, such as by conducting periodic risk assessments or 
performing vulnerability and penetration testing of the network and 
databases;  

failed to have a policy, procedure, or practice for inventorying and 
deleting consumers’ personal information stored on Respondent’s network 
that is no longer necessary; and 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
f. 

failed to use data loss prevention tools to regularly monitor for 
unauthorized attempts to transfer or exfiltrate consumers’ personal 
information outside of Respondent’s network boundaries. 

Respondent’s Failure to Secure Consumers’ Personal Information 

13. 

Respondent’s failure to provide reasonable security for the personal information it 

collected led to exposure of some of the information in a cloud database.  In March 2019, a 
security researcher, using a publicly available search engine, discovered an unsecured cloud 
database maintained by Respondent.  According to the security researcher, the database, which 
could be located and accessed by anyone on the internet, contained approximately 130,000 
membership records with consumers’ personal information stored in plain text, including 
information populated in certain fields for names, dates of birth, gender, home addresses, email 
addresses, phone numbers, membership information and account numbers, and health 
information (i.e., “hospitalized,” “hos_explanation,” “prescription,” “prescription_list,” and 
“medical”).   

14. 

On March 27, 2019, the security researcher notified Respondent about the 

existence of the database and provided screenshots showing that the database contained 
consumers’ personal information.  The security researcher also informed Respondent that anyone 
could easily alter, download, or even delete the personal information contained therein.  In 
response to the notification, Respondent deleted the database, including the records contained 
therein. 

15. 

Respondent failed to detect this unsecured and publicly accessible cloud database 

for more than five months.  In fact, before Respondent received the security researcher’s 
notification, Respondent had no idea that the publicly accessible cloud database even existed, let 
alone that it contained consumers’ personal information stored in plain text.  Thus, had the 
exposure not been discovered by the security researcher, it would have continued.   

Respondent’s Notification to Consumers Regarding the Security Incident 

16. 

On May 2, 2019, Respondent notified current and former membership plan 

holders of this security incident via email.  Respondent advised consumers that it had received 
information from a security researcher about a publicly accessible database containing the 
consumers’ information.   

17. 

Respondent represented that it “immediately took proactive measures to 

determine the validity of [the security researcher’s] allegation, including [by] engaging legal and 
independent third parties.”  It also claimed to have investigated the incident, stating: 

Our investigation learned that some old data may have been exposed temporarily 
as we migrated data from an old system to a new system.  At this time, the 
exposed data has been removed and appears to be limited to only a portion of our 
information and was restricted to names, street and email addresses, phone and 
membership ID numbers.  There was no medical or payment-related 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
information visible and no indication that the information has been misused.  
(emphasis in original). 

18.  Multiple consumers responded to Respondent’s email notification.  Some 

consumers inquired further about the security incident and the specific personal information 
exposed, including whether Respondent would be providing identity theft and credit monitoring 
services.  Others requested that Respondent delete all of their personal information.  Some 
consumers praised Respondent for communicating the findings of the investigation into the 
security incident.  

19. 

Contrary to its representations to consumers described in Paragraph 17, 

Respondent’s investigation did not determine that consumers’ health information was neither 
stored on the cloud database, nor improperly accessed by an unauthorized third party.  Rather, 
Respondent’s investigation merely sought to confirm that the database at issue was online and 
publicly accessible.  Upon confirming as much, Respondent immediately deleted the database 
without ever verifying the types of personal information stored therein.  At no point did 
Respondent examine the actual information stored in the cloud database, identify the consumers 
placed at risk by the exposure, or look for evidence of other unauthorized access to the database.   

Injury to Consumers 

20. 

Respondent’s failure to provide reasonable security for consumers’ personal 

information has caused or is likely to cause substantial injury to those consumers.  The 
information collected by Respondent, including consumers’ medical conditions, prescription 
medications, and previous hospitalizations, together with identifying information such as their 
names, postal and email addresses, dates of birth, phone numbers, and passport numbers, is 
highly sensitive.  Disclosure of such information, without authorization, is likely to cause stigma, 
embarrassment, and/or emotional distress.  Exposure of this information may also affect a 
consumer’s ability to obtain and/or retain employment, housing, health insurance, or disability 
insurance.  Consumers could lose their jobs, health insurance, or housing if their health 
information becomes public knowledge. 

21. 

Here, the unsecured cloud database containing more than 130,000 records of 

consumers’ personal information, as described in Paragraph 13, was publicly available on the 
Internet for at least five months.  Due to Respondent’s failure to use data loss prevention tools 
and lack of access controls and authentication protections for its networks, consumers’ personal 
information, including health information, may have been exposed in other instances—beyond 
the incident described in Paragraphs 13 to 15—without Respondent’s knowledge.  Even if 
consumers’ personal information had not actually been exposed, Respondent’s failure to secure 
the vast amount of information it has collected has caused or is likely to cause substantial injury 
to consumers.  In particular, health information is valuable on the open market, and wrongdoers 
frequently seek to purchase consumers’ health information on the dark web. 

22. 

The harms described in Paragraphs 20 to 21 were not reasonably avoidable by 

consumers, as consumers had no way to know about Respondent’s information security failures 
described in Paragraph 12.   

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
23. 

Respondent could have prevented or mitigated these information security failures 

through readily available, and relatively low-cost, measures. 

COUNT I – DECEPTION 
HIPAA Seal Misrepresentation 

24. 

Through the means described in Paragraphs 9 and 10, Respondent represented, 

expressly or by implication, directly or indirectly, that a government agency or other third party 
had reviewed Respondent’s information practices and determined that they met HIPAA’s 
requirements. 

25. 

In truth and fact, as described in Paragraph 11, no government agency or other 

third party had ever reviewed Respondent’s information practices and determined that 
Respondent’s practices met HIPAA’s requirements.  Therefore, the representation set forth in 
Paragraph 24 is false or misleading. 

COUNT II – DECEPTION 
Security Incident Response Misrepresentation 

26. 

Through the means described in Paragraph 17, Respondent has represented, 

directly or indirectly, expressly or by implication, that its investigation into a security 
researcher’s report about an unsecured cloud database determined that consumers’ health 
information was neither stored on the database, nor improperly accessed by an unauthorized third 
party other than the researcher who reported its exposure.   

27. 

In truth and in fact, as described in Paragraph 19, Respondent’s investigation did 

not determine whether consumers’ health information was stored on the cloud database or 
improperly accessed by an unauthorized third party.  Therefore, the representation set forth in 
Paragraph 26 is false or misleading. 

COUNT III – UNFAIRNESS 
Unfair Information Security Practices 

28. 

Through the means described in Paragraph 12, Respondent failed to employ 

reasonable measures to protect consumers’ personal information, which caused or is likely to 
cause substantial injury to consumers that is not outweighed by countervailing benefits to 
consumers or competition and is not reasonably avoidable by consumers themselves, as 
described in Paragraphs 20 to 23.  This practice is an unfair act or practice. 

VIOLATIONS OF SECTION 5 OF THE FTC ACT 

29. 

The acts and practices of Respondent, as alleged in this Complaint, constitute 

unfair and/or deceptive acts or practices, in or affecting commerce in violation of Section 5(a) of 
the Federal Trade Commission Act. 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THEREFORE, the Federal Trade Commission this 26th day of January, 2021, has issued 

this complaint against Respondent.  

By the Commission. 

SEAL: 

April J. Tabor
Secretary 

7 

