UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION 

 1923209

COMMISSIONERS: 

Lina M. Khan, Chair 
Noah Joshua Phillips 
Rebecca Kelly Slaughter 
Christine S. Wilson 
Alvaro M. Bedoya 

________________________________________________ 

In the Matter of 

RESIDUAL PUMPKIN ENTITY, LLC, 
a limited liability company, 
formerly d/b/a CAFEPRESS, and  

PLANETART, LLC, a limited liability company, 
d/b/a CAFEPRESS. 

________________________________________________ 

COMPLAINT 

DOCKET NOS. C-4768 & C-4769

The Federal Trade Commission, having reason to believe that Residual Pumpkin Entity, 
LLC, a limited liability company, and PlanetArt, LLC, a limited liability company (collectively, 
“Respondents”), have violated the provisions of the Federal Trade Commission Act, and it 
appearing to the Commission that this proceeding is in the public interest, alleges: 

1.
Respondent Residual Pumpkin Entity, LLC (“Residual Pumpkin”), also formerly doing
business as CafePress, is a Delaware limited liability company with its principal office or place
of business at 11909 Shelbyville Road, Louisville, Kentucky 40243.

2.
Respondent PlanetArt, LLC (“PlanetArt”), also doing business as CafePress, is a
Delaware limited liability company with its principal office or place of business at 23801
Calabasas Road, Suite 2005, Calabasas, California 91302.

Residual Pumpkin developed and operated a platform that allows consumers to purchase

3.
customized merchandise such as t-shirts and coffee mugs from other consumers or
“shopkeepers” on the platform at www.cafepress.com. On September 1, 2020, PlanetArt
purchased substantially all of CafePress’s assets, including the use of the trade name CafePress,
and began operating the website www.cafepress.com. As part of the September 1, 2020
transaction, CafePress changed its name to Residual Pumpkin Entity. This complaint uses the
name Residual Pumpkin to refer to activity conducted by that entity before its September 1, 2020
name change.

PlanetArt has run the website from the same building, with the same servers, using many
4.
of the same vendor accounts, in the same line of business, with many of the same personnel as its
predecessor, Residual Pumpkin.

The acts and practices of Respondents alleged in this complaint have been in or affecting

5.
commerce, as “commerce” is defined in Section 4 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, 15
U.S.C. § 44.

Data Security 

Respondents have hosted a platform at the website www.cafepress.com, through which

6.
consumers nationwide and internationally can purchase customized merchandise.

In selling and promoting products through www.cafepress.com, Respondents routinely

7.
have collected information from consumers and shopkeepers—including names, email addresses,
telephone numbers, birth dates, gender, photos, social media handles, security questions and
answers, passwords, PayPal addresses, the last four digits and expiration dates of credit cards,
and Social Security or tax identification numbers of shopkeepers (collectively “Personal
Information”)—through Respondents’ website. Residual Pumpkin stored this Personal
Information on their network in clear text, except for passwords, which were encrypted.

Residual Pumpkin’s Deceptive Data Security Representations 

Since at least June 2018 until in or around February 2020, Residual Pumpkin

8.
disseminated or caused to be disseminated a privacy policy on the www.cafepress.com website,
attached as Exhibit A. This privacy policy contained the following statements regarding the
security of the Personal Information it has collected:

CafePress values the trust you place in us when you use CafePress.com 
and our affiliated websites, applications or tools (collectively, our 
"Websites"). Your privacy and trust are important to us and who we are as 
a company.  

* * *

We do our best to provide you with a safe and convenient shopping 
experience. Our Websites incorporate physical, technical, and 
administrative safeguards to protect the confidentiality of the information 
we collect through the Websites, including the use of encryption, 
firewalls, limited access and other controls where appropriate. While we 
use these precautions to safeguard your personal information, we 
cannot guarantee the security of the networks, systems, servers, 
devices, and databases we operate or that are operated on our behalf. 
100% complete security does not presently exist anywhere online or 
offline. 

2 

(Emphasis in original.) 

Since at least 2018 through the date of the breach described below, Respondents have

9.
also disseminated or caused to be disseminated the following statements to consumers regarding
the security of the Personal Information it collects:

•

In standardized email responses to commonly asked questions, Residual Pumpkin
claimed: “CafePress.com also pledges to use the best and most accepted methods and
technologies to insure [sic] your personal information is safe and secure.”

• On Residual Pumpkin’s and PlanetArt’s checkout pages: “Safe and Secure Shopping.

Guaranteed.”

Since at least August 2018 through the date of the February 2019 breach described

10.
below, Residual Pumpkin has disseminated or caused to be disseminated standardized email
responses to commonly asked questions from shopkeepers containing the following statements
regarding the security of the Personal Information it collects:

• Please keep in mind, your Social Security ID # is sensitive information and it
is sent form [sic] an unsecured email. If you have an EIN number, you can use
that number in place of the SSN.

If you do not have an Employer/Employee Identification Number you can file
for a EIN.  Below is a link to this form. Please note our servers are secure.

•

If you do not wish to use your social security number to receive your commission
checks, you can file for an EIN. Below is a link to this form.

http://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/fss4.pdf

Please note our servers are secure and your personal information is stored safely in
our system.

• To receive your full commission amount, you must provide your tax information.

Information collected here will be used solely to fulfill IRS requirements, and will not
be used in any other manner.  Additionally your information will be secure.  The
following is a link for more information on our Secure Server…. 

Respondents’ Data Security Practices 

Since at least January 2018, Respondents have been responsible for a number of practices

11.
that failed to provide reasonable security for the Personal Information stored on its network.
Among other things:

a.

Respondents failed to implement readily-available protections, including many
low-cost protections, against well-known and reasonably foreseeable

3 

b.

c.

d.

e.

f.

g.

h.

vulnerabilities, such as “Structured Query Language” (“SQL”) injection, 
Cascading Style Sheets (“CSS”) and HTML injection, cross-site scripting 
(“XSS”), and cross-site request forgery (“CSRF”) attacks, that could be exploited 
to gain unauthorized access to Personal Information on its network; 

Residual Pumpkin stored Personal Information such as Social Security numbers
and security questions and answers in clear, readable text;

Residual Pumpkin failed to implement reasonable measures to protect passwords,
such as using the SHA-1 hashing algorithm, deprecated by the National Institute
of Standards and Technology in 2011, instead of more secure algorithms, and
failing to use a “salt”—random data that makes attacks (e.g., brute force, rainbow
tables) against cryptographically protected passwords harder;

Residual Pumpkin failed to implement a process for receiving and addressing
security vulnerability reports from third-party researchers, academics, or other
members of the public, thereby delaying its opportunity to correct discovered
vulnerabilities or respond to reported incidents;

Residual Pumpkin failed to implement patch management policies and procedures
to ensure the timely remediation of critical security vulnerabilities and used
obsolete versions of database and web server software that no longer received
patches;

Residual Pumpkin failed to establish or enforce rules sufficient to make user
credentials (such as user name and password) hard to guess. For example,
employees and consumers, including shopkeepers, were not required to use
complex passwords. Accordingly, they could select the same word, including
common dictionary words, as both the password and user ID, or a close variant of
the user ID as the password;

Residual Pumpkin created unnecessary risks to Personal Information by storing it
indefinitely on its network without a business need;

Residual Pumpkin failed to implement reasonable procedures to prevent, detect,
or investigate an intrusion. For example, Residual Pumpkin failed to:

i.

ii.

log sufficient information to adequately assess cybersecurity events;

properly configure vulnerability testing and scope penetration testing of
the network and web application;

iii.

comply with its own written security policies; and

4 

i.

Residual Pumpkin failed to reasonably respond to security incidents. For example,
Residual Pumpkin failed to:

i.

ii.

iii.

timely disclose security incidents to relevant parties, preventing them from
taking readily available low-cost measures to avoid or mitigate reasonably
foreseeable harm;

adequately assess the extent of and remediate malware infections after
learning that devices on its network were infected with malware; and

take adequate measures to prevent account takeovers through password
resets using data known to have been obtained by hackers.

February 2019 Breach of Consumer Data 

In or around February 2019, a hacker exploited the failures set forth in Paragraph 11. The
12.
hacker found Personal Information stored on Residual Pumpkin’s network, including: more than
twenty million unencrypted email addresses and encrypted passwords; millions of unencrypted
names, physical addresses, and security questions and answers; more than 180,000 unencrypted
Social Security numbers; and, for tens of thousands of payment cards, the unencrypted last four
digits of the card together with the unencrypted expiration dates. The hacker exported this
information over the Internet to outside computers.

On March 11, 2019, Residual Pumpkin received notice of a security incident involving an

13.
intrusion into its network. An individual stated that he “believe[s] hackers have access to your
customer [database]. The data is currently for sale in certain circles.” The individual
demonstrated the existence of a SQL injection vulnerability that allowed direct access to
Residual Pumpkin’s database containing consumer information.

On March 12, 2019, Residual Pumpkin confirmed that the individual had identified a

14.
legitimate vulnerability. On March 13, 2019, Residual Pumpkin issued a patch to remediate the
vulnerability.

15.
On March 26, 2019, Residual Pumpkin investigated a recent spike in suspected
fraudulent orders and concluded the orders were caused by someone “testing ou[t] stolen credit
cards.”

The breach of Respondents’ consumers’ credentials increased the risk that its website

16.
would be used by fraudsters in possession of credit card numbers, individuals sometimes known
as “carders.” “Carders” are known to target certain websites to place fraudulent orders using
stolen credit card numbers.

“Carders” often share lists of “cardable” websites, those on which stolen credit cards can

17.
easily be used because, for example, Respondents did not use an address verification service to
validate the billing addresses of credit cards used for payments. Since at least 2015, carders have
listed CafePress on publicly available forums as a cardable website.

5 

On April 10, 2019, Residual Pumpkin received an email from a foreign government with

18.
an attached letter stating that a hacker had illegally obtained access to CafePress user account
information from January 2014 to January 2019. The email included an attachment with
CafePress account logins and passwords and said the hacker had sold the information to a large
number of “carders.” The letter requested that Residual Pumpkin notify users of compromised
accounts to “prevent[] further compromise of accounts owned by users.”

On April 15, 2019, Residual Pumpkin required all users who logged into the service to

19.
reset their passwords, telling consumers only that the company had updated its password policy.

Publicly available internet posts began appearing on July 13, 2019, stating that consumer

20.
data in Residual Pumpkin’s custody had been obtained by hackers. These posts appeared on
Twitter.com, Reddit.com, and other discussion boards. By July 19, 2019, posters began to
request assistance with decrypting the passwords, and by August 3, 2019, posts appeared
purporting to show recovered passwords from the breach.

On July 26, 2019, Residual Pumpkin became aware of a post on Facebook stating that the

21.
poster had received notice from a monitoring service that her information had been breached
from Residual Pumpkin’s network.

22.
From July 26, 2019, through August 5, 2019, Residual Pumpkin received additional
reports from consumers stating that they received third-party notifications that their data had
been hacked. On August 5, 2019, a post on the haveibeenpwned.com website indicated that the
cafepress.com website had been breached. The next day, Residual Pumpkin internally confirmed
that its customer records were available for sale on the dark web.

23.
After third parties publicized the breach, Residual Pumpkin reviewed the data it had
received in the April 10, 2019 email and confirmed that it appeared to contain CafePress account
names and passwords.

In September 2019, Residual Pumpkin sent breach notification letters and emails to

24.
government agencies and affected consumers and posted a notice of the breach via a banner at
the top of the CafePress website from September 5, 2019 to October 12, 2019. Residual Pumpkin
offered two years of free identity theft insurance and credit monitoring services to consumers
whose Social Security numbers or tax identification numbers were exposed.

Residual Pumpkin told individuals, law enforcement, and regulators that the April 15,

25.
2019 password reset effectively blocked the passwords from subsequent unauthorized use.
However, until at least November 19, 2019, Residual Pumpkin continued to allow passwords to
be reset through Residual Pumpkin’s website simply by answering a security question associated
with an email address—information that was stolen in the breach—without confirming that the
individual attempting to change the password controlled that email address. Thus, until
November 2019, anyone with access to the breached data could take over another user’s account.

6 

Even though the passwords were encrypted, as noted above, Residual Pumpkin used a

26.
deprecated encryption algorithm and failed to use a salt. Scammers were thus able to recover the
passwords and use them in extortion attempts. Scammers sent emails to consumers claiming they
had obtained damaging Personal Information by hacking into the consumer’s computer and
would release it unless paid in bitcoin. To provide credibility to their claims, scammers included
the consumer’s recovered password to Respondents’ website in the extortion message.

Residual Pumpkin withheld up to $25 in otherwise payable commissions owed to

27.
shopkeepers who closed their account after the breach.

Other Security Breaches 

The February 2019 breach was not the only incident that Residual Pumpkin experienced

28.
as a result of these security failures. Shopkeepers’ accounts have been hacked and visitors to
those shopkeepers’ sites redirected to websites controlled by hackers. Moreover, through at least
January 2018, and when Residual Pumpkin identified shopkeeper accounts that it determined had
been hacked, Residual Pumpkin not only closed those accounts, but also assessed the
shopkeepers a $25 account closure fee.

29.
Residual Pumpkin also experienced a number of malware infections. In May 2018,
Residual Pumpkin determined that a number of its servers were infected with malware but failed
to investigate the cause of infection and instead merely fixed the affected servers.

30.
In August 2018, Residual Pumpkin became aware that an employee had been targeted by
multiple phishing attempts. A scan showed the employee’s computer was infected with malware,
including a backdoor bot, a “Trojan” downloader, and a password stealer. Additionally, the
employee’s email account had been configured for months to forward all incoming email to
unknown third-party email addresses.

In response to this security incident, Residual Pumpkin replaced the particular computer

31.
that was infected, but failed to take reasonable steps to detect, remediate, and prevent similar
infections on other devices on its network.

Because of Residual Pumpkin’s failure to implement reasonable safeguards in response

32.
to the discovery of malware-based phishing attacks, other devices on Residual Pumpkin’s
network remained vulnerable to malware. In fact, the same type of malware that had been found
in August 2018 was found on the payroll administrator’s computer in February 2019.

33.
In April, May, and September 2019, an identity thief or thieves used Personal
Information belonging to three Residual Pumpkin employees to try to change the employees’
payroll direct deposit information. Only after the third incident did Residual Pumpkin at last
begin an investigation.

7 

Injury to Consumers 

34.
Consumers have likely suffered actual injury as a result of Respondents’ data security
failures. Breached Personal Information, such as that stored in Respondents’ system, is often
used to commit identity theft and fraud. For example, as noted above, Personal Information
exfiltrated from Respondents’ system, including login credentials and Social Security numbers,
was known to be in the hands of criminals on the dark web including credit card fraudsters and
scammers who, among other things, used recovered passwords in extortion attempts of
Respondents’ consumers.

Residual Pumpkin’s failure to respond adequately to multiple reports of a security breach

35.
led to an unreasonable delay in notifying consumers that their information was exposed and
increased the likelihood that those consumers would become victims of identity theft and fraud.
Residual Pumpkin’s insecure password reset procedure further exacerbated the risks to
consumers’ Personal Information, as those with access to the breached information could take
over users’ accounts even after Residual Pumpkin had reset their passwords.

Consumers had no way of independently knowing about Respondents’ security failures

36.
and could not reasonably have avoided possible harms from such failures.

Privacy 

Until in or around February 2020, Residual Pumpkin disseminated or caused to be

37.
disseminated a privacy policy (Exhibit A). This privacy policy included the following
statements:

How we use your information 
. . . . 
In accordance with your choices when you registered with us, we may use 
information you give us or information we collect about you to: 
• Provide, maintain, and improve the Websites for internal or other business

purposes;

• Fulfill requests for information;

*** 

Emails, Newsletters, and other Communications: 
When you create an account through our Websites, you are required to provide us 
with an accurate e-mail address through which we may contact you. The choices 
you make during the registration through our Websites or apps constitute your 
express acknowledgment of whether CafePress may use your e-mail address to 
communicate with you about product offerings from CafePress, its affiliates, 
selected third parties, and/or partners. 

*** 

8 

Users in the European Union (EEA) and Switzerland 
If you are a resident of the EEA [European Economic Area] or Switzerland, the 
following information applies. 

Purposes of processing and legal basis for processing: As explained above, we 
process personal data in various ways depending upon your use of our Websites. 
We process personal data on the following legal bases: (1) with your consent; (2) 
as necessary to perform our agreement to provide Services; and (3) as necessary 
for our legitimate interests in providing the Websites where those interests do not 
override your fundamental rights and freedom related to data privacy. 

*** 

Individual Rights: If you are a resident of the EEA or Switzerland, you are 
entitled to the following rights. 
. . . . 
The right to request data erasure: You have the right to have your data erased 
from our Websites if the data is no longer necessary for the purpose for which it 
was collected, you withdraw consent and no other legal basis for processing 
exists, or you believe your fundamental rights to data privacy and protection 
outweigh our legitimate interest in continuing the processing. 

*** 

Privacy Shield Frameworks 
CafePress Inc. complies with the EU-US Privacy Shield Framework and the 
Swiss-US Privacy Shield Framework as set forth by the US Department of 
Commerce regarding the collection, use, and retention of personal information 
from European Union member countries and Switzerland transferred to the United 
States pursuant to Privacy Shield. CafePress has certified that it adheres to the 
Privacy Shield Principles with respect to such data. If there is any conflict 
between the policies in this privacy policy and data subject rights under the 
Privacy Shield Principles, the Privacy Shield Principles shall govern. To learn 
more about the Privacy Shield program, and to view our certification page, please 
visit https://www.privacyshield.gov/. 
. . . . 
EU and Swiss individuals have the right to obtain our confirmation of whether we 
maintain personal information relating to you. Upon request, we will provide you 
with access to the personal information that we hold about you. You also may 
correct, amend, or delete the personal information we hold about you. An 
individual who seeks access, or who seeks to correct, amend, or delete inaccurate 
data, should direct their query to GDPR@cafepress.com. If requested to remove 
data, we will respond within a reasonable timeframe. 
. . . . 
We will provide an individual opt-out or opt-in choice before we share your data 
with third parties other than our agents, or before we use it for a purpose other 
than which it was originally collected or subsequently authorized. 

9 

To limit the use and disclosure of your personal information, please submit a 
written request to GDPR@cafepress.com. 

The Department of Commerce (“Commerce”) and the European Commission negotiated

38.
the Privacy Shield to provide a mechanism for companies to transfer personal data from the
European Union to the United States in a manner consistent with the requirements of European
Union law on data protection. The Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield framework is identical to the EU-
U.S. Privacy Shield framework.

39.
Privacy Shield expressly provides that, while decisions by organizations to “enter the
Privacy Shield are entirely voluntary, effective compliance is compulsory: organizations that
self-certify to the Department and publicly declare their commitment to adhere to the Principles
must comply fully with the Principles.”

To join the EU-U.S. and/or Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield framework, a company must
40.
certify to Commerce that it complies with the Privacy Shield Principles. Participating companies
must annually re-certify their compliance.

41.
Companies under the jurisdiction of the FTC are eligible to join the EU-U.S. and/or
Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield framework. Both frameworks warn companies that claim to have self-
certified to the Privacy Shield Principles that failure to comply or otherwise to “fully implement”
the Privacy Shield Principles “is enforceable under Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission
Act.”

Residual Pumpkin obtained Privacy Shield certification in June 2018 and has had an

42.
active certification since then, except from June 12, 2019 through July 23, 2019.

43.

The Privacy Shield Principles include the following:

CHOICE [Principle 2]: (a) An organization must offer individuals the opportunity 
to choose (opt out) whether their personal information is (i) to be disclosed to a 
third party or (ii) to be used for a purpose that is materially different from the 
purpose(s) for which it was originally collected or subsequently authorized by the 
individuals. Individuals must be provided with clear, conspicuous, and readily 
available mechanisms to exercise choice. 

SECURITY [Principle 4]: (a) Organizations creating, maintaining, using or 
disseminating personal information must take reasonable and appropriate 
measures to protect it from loss, misuse and unauthorized access, disclosure, 
alteration and destruction, taking into due account the risks involved in the 
processing and the nature of the personal data. 

ACCESS [Principle 6]: (a) Individuals must have access to personal information 
about them that an organization holds and be able to correct, amend, or delete that 
information where it is inaccurate, or has been processed in violation of the 

10 

Principles, except where the burden or expense of providing access would be 
disproportionate to the risks to the individual’s privacy in the case in question, or 
where the rights of persons other than the individual would be violated. 

44.
Although the European Court of Justice determined on July 16, 2020 that the EU-U.S.
Privacy Shield framework was not adequate for allowing the lawful transfer of personal data
from the European Union and the Swiss Data Protection and Information Commissioner
determined on September 8, 2020 that the Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield framework was similarly
inadequate, those decisions do not change the fact that Residual Pumpkin represented to
consumers that it was certified under both Privacy Shield frameworks, and as such, would fully
comply with the Principles, including Principles 2, 4, and 6.

Privacy Practices 

45. When consumers completed online orders, Respondents have required them to submit
their email address as a mandatory input field. Respondents have provided a notice above the
field stating, “Email address for order notifications and receipt.”

In certain markets, Residual Pumpkin included an additional checkbox to obtain

46.
consumer consent to receive marketing emails.

47.
However, users would receive marketing emails when they provided their email during
checkout, even though the input box only explained that Residual Pumpkin would use the email
address “for order notifications and receipt.” Similarly, where Residual Pumpkin provided an
additional checkbox to seek consumers’ opt-in consent to receive marketing emails, as shown in
Paragraph 46 above, consumers would receive marketing emails even if they left the checkbox
unchecked. Residual Pumpkin was aware that its practices were inconsistent with its stated
practices since at least August 2018.

48.
Residual Pumpkin has also failed to honor its commitments related to deleting
information. Since June 19, 2018, Residual Pumpkin claimed it would delete information upon
request from residents of the EEA and Switzerland. In fact, until November 2019 Residual
Pumpkin only deactivated user accounts when it received such requests but did not delete the
associated account information. Because of this failure to honor deletion requests, information
from many consumers who had requested before the February 2019 breach that Residual
Pumpkin delete their information was exposed in the breach.

11 

The acts and practices of Respondents alleged in this complaint involve material conduct

49.
occurring within the United States.

Count I 
Data Security Misrepresentations 

As described in Paragraphs 8-10, Respondents have represented, directly or indirectly,

50.
expressly or by implication, that they implemented reasonable measures to protect Personal
Information against unauthorized access.

In fact, as set forth in Paragraph 11, Respondents did not implement reasonable measures

51.
to protect Personal Information against unauthorized access. Therefore, the representation set
forth in Paragraph 50 is false or misleading.

Response to Data Security Incident Misrepresentations 

Count II 

52.
As described in Paragraphs 19 and 24-25, Respondents have represented, directly or
indirectly, expressly or by implication, that they took appropriate steps to secure consumer
account information following security incidents.

53.
In fact, as set forth in Paragraph 25, Respondents had not taken appropriate steps to
secure access to consumer accounts following security incidents. Consumer accounts remained at
risk even after the passwords had been reset. Therefore, the representation set forth in Paragraph
52 is false or misleading.

Count III 
Unfair Data Security Practices 

As described in Paragraph 11, Respondents’ failure to employ reasonable data security

54.
measures to protect Personal Information caused or is likely to cause substantial injury to
consumers that is not outweighed by countervailing benefits to consumers or competition and is
not reasonably avoidable by consumers themselves. This practice is an unfair act or practice.

Count IV 
Data Collection and Use Misrepresentation 

As described in Paragraphs 37, 45, and 46, Respondents have represented, directly or

55.
indirectly, expressly or by implication, that they would use email addresses only for order
notification and receipt.

56.
In fact, as described in Paragraph 47, Respondents did not use email addresses only for
order notification and receipt. Respondents sent marketing emails to consumers irrespective of
whether they consented to receive such emails. Therefore, the representation set forth in
Paragraph 55 is false or misleading.

12 

Count V 
Misrepresentation Relating to Privacy Shield Frameworks 

As described in Paragraph 37, Respondents have represented, directly or indirectly,
57.
expressly or by implication, that they adhered to the EU-U.S. and the Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield
frameworks, including the principles of Choice, Security, and Access.

In fact, as described in Paragraphs 11 and 43-49, Respondents did not adhere to the
58.
Privacy Shield Principles of Choice, Security, and Access. Therefore, the representation set forth
in Paragraph 57 is false or misleading.

Count VI 
Misrepresentation Relating to Deletion of Consumer Data 

As described in Paragraph 37, Respondents have represented, directly or indirectly,

59.
expressly or by implication, that they honored requests from residents of the EEA and
Switzerland to erase data and restrict the use of personal data for direct marketing.

In fact, as described in Paragraph 48, Respondents did not honor requests from residents

60.
of the EEA and Switzerland to erase data and restrict the use of personal data for direct
marketing. Therefore, the representation set forth in Paragraph 59 is false or misleading.

Count VII 
Unfair Withholding of Payable Commissions After Security Breach 

As described in Paragraphs 27 and 28, Respondents withheld payable commissions owed

61.
to shopkeepers whose accounts were closed after a security breach.

62. Withholding payable commissions owed to shopkeepers whose accounts were closed
after a security breach is likely to cause substantial injury to consumers that is not outweighed by
countervailing benefits to consumers or competition and is not reasonably avoidable by
consumers themselves. This practice is an unfair act or practice.

13 

Violations of Section 5 

63.
The acts and practices of Respondents as alleged in this complaint constitute unfair or
deceptive acts or practices in or affecting commerce in violation of Section 5(a) of the Federal
Trade Commission Act.

THEREFORE, the Federal Trade Commission this 23rd day of June, 2022, has issued 

this complaint against Respondents. 

By the Commission. 

SEAL: 

April J. Tabor 
Secretary 

14 

Exhibit A 

