UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION 

1923170 

COMMISSIONERS: 

Lina M. Khan, Chair 
Rebecca Kelly Slaughter 
Alvaro M. Bedoya 

In the Matter of 

1HEALTH.IO INC., a corporation, also d/b/a 
VITAGENE, INC. 

DOCKET NO.  C-4798 

COMPLAINT 

The Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”), having reason to believe that 1Health.io Inc., 
also doing business as Vitagene, Inc. and Vitagene, a corporation (“Respondent”), has violated 
the provisions of the Federal Trade Commission Act, and it appearing to the Commission that 
this proceeding is in the public interest, alleges: 

Respondent 1Health.io Inc., also doing business as Vitagene, Inc. and Vitagene 

1. 
(“1Health.io” or “Vitagene”), is a Delaware corporation with its principal office or place of 
business at 201 Spear Street, Suite 1100, San Francisco, California 94105.  Respondent changed 
its name from Vitagene, Inc. to 1Health.io Inc. in October 2020. 

Respondent has developed, advertised, offered for sale, sold, and distributed products to 

2. 
consumers, including DNA test kits, through its websites, https://1health.io and 
https://vitagene.com (“Vitagene Website”), and other outlets, such as www.amazon.com. 

The acts and practices of Respondent alleged in this complaint have been in or affecting 

3. 
commerce, as “commerce” is defined in Section 4 of the Federal Trade Commission Act. 

RESPONDENT’S DNA HEALTH TEST KITS AND RELATED PRODUCTS 

Since 2015, Respondent has sold Vitagene-branded “DNA Health Test Kits” to 

4. 
consumers.  In each DNA Health Test Kit, Respondent instructs the consumer to provide a saliva 
sample by mail.  Respondent contracts with a testing lab to analyze the sample and map a portion 
of the consumer’s genetic code. 

Respondent combines the lab’s DNA analysis with the consumer’s answers to an online 

5. 
“health questionnaire” that probes the individual’s health history, lifestyle, and family health 

1 

 
history.  Using this information, Respondent generates reports about the consumer’s health and 
wellness (“Health Reports”) and ancestry. 

6. 
Respondent also sells to consumers Health Reports that Respondent creates by using 
consumers’ answers to an online “lifestyle questionnaire” and raw DNA data that consumers 
send to Respondent after the consumers have obtained DNA tests from certain companies other 
than Respondent. 

7. 
In addition to DNA Health Test Kits, Health Reports, and ancestry reports, Respondent’s 
products include nutritional, fitness, and beauty plans and nutritional supplements customized to 
each consumer’s unique DNA. 

The retail cost for a single DNA Health Test Kit, Health Report, and ancestry report 

8. 
ranges from $29 to $259, with high-end kits including add-ons, such as subscriptions to 
personalized vitamin packs and nutritional coaching. 

9. 
The Health Reports that Respondent creates contain numerous facts about the consumer’s 
genetics and health.  For example, one type of Health Report first lists the consumer’s name, date 
of birth, and referring doctor or dietician, and then identifies salient genotype data, pertinent 
questionnaire answers, and, based on the genotype data and questionnaire answers, the level of 
risk for having or developing certain health conditions, such as high LDL cholesterol, high 
triglycerides, obesity, or blood clots. 

RESPONDENT’S DECEPTIVE PRIVACY AND SECURITY PROMISES 

Since at least 2018, Respondent has made numerous, prominent claims about the privacy 

10. 
and security of the sensitive health and genetic information it collects and maintains.  For 
example, the Vitagene Website’s home page, https://vitagene.com, devotes a section to “DNA 
Testing Privacy” that, as shown below, prominently features an image of a large padlock over a 
strand of DNA and asserts:  “Your DNA and health details are personal and private. We make 
your privacy our priority.” 

Your DNA and health details are personal and private. We make your privacy our priority. 

Testing Privacy 

Wo will not sell or publish your information with any third party firm or partner. That is our commitment to you. 

We use industry standard security practices to store your DNA sample. your test results. 
and any other personal data you provide. 

loam more 

2 

 
 
 
 
As shown above, the Vitagene Website home page includes a button that consumers can 
11. 
click to “Learn more” about Respondent’s “DNA Testing Privacy.”  That button provides a link 
to a webpage on the Vitagene Website that Respondent devotes to describing Respondent’s 
privacy practices, https://vitagene.com/privacy/.  Like the Vitagene Website home page, as 
shown below, the website’s privacy webpage prominently features images of padlocks, with the 
large-type, bold-faced heading:  “The most personal information must also be the most 
private.”  (Emphasis in original).  Under that heading, Respondent asserts:  “[W]e design 
innovative ways to protect your data and build powerful safeguards into our platform to ensure 
the safety of your personal information. As your lifelong partner on your health journey, your 
privacy is our top priority.”  (Emphasis in original). 

("'\ 

,., 

The most personal information must 
also be the most private. 

Vit 

wm, f 

.d ori t 

,:,t P'CM  "'9 W 

occurato and oct,onoD!o 

WormObOn to ol"l"lp(Mut poop:O lO •vo l'lopP"OJ ond tlOO?\hiiOf livt1.-.  To SUP90'\ lhOl 
rnom>t\ ,..,-.go"'"'"''""'° ""YI to p,o<oct yo.,r cloto ond build P""  m,1 oof"l!'•o"'" 

o our platform to MIIU'8 t 

1,0f 

of your  ~ rvmat.on 

Aa you, Rt- .g  pa,.,_ on your ,_h  jownoy. your p,lva<:y la..,, top p,fority. 

On the Vitagene Website privacy webpage, as shown below, under the bold-faced 

12. 
heading, “Experience personalization without sacrificing privacy,” Respondent features an 
image of a padlock with the sub-heading “Rock-solid Security.”  (Emphasis omitted). 
Accompanying this image and sub-heading is the statement:  “We use the latest technology and 
exceed industry-standard security practices to protect your privacy.” 

Experience personalization without sacrificing privacy. 

Your privacy is your business 
Wo do not soil your doto to ony th,rd-porty, 

1ndividuolly or in oggrogote form. 

You're in control of your data 
You con dolote your doto ot ony timo. This will 
remove your information from oll of our 

sorvors. 

Rock-solid Security 
Wo uso tho lotost technology ond oxcoed 

industry-stondord security practices to 
protoct your privacy. 

13. 
Also on the Vitagene Website privacy webpage, Respondent gives its consumers 
additional assurances of its careful privacy and security practices.  For example, as shown below, 
Respondent asserts, in bold-faced type:  “Vitagene collects, processes, and stores your 
personal information in a responsible, transparent and secure environment that fosters our 

3 

 
  
customers’ trust and confidence.”  At the bottom of this webpage, Respondent further 
represents in bold typeface:  “Your health information is yours, and yours only. Your trust 
means a great deal to us, and drives our continued commitment to protecting your 
privacy.” 

Vitagene collect s, processes, and stores your 
personal informat ion in a responsible, 
transparent and sec ure environment that 
fosters our customers' t rust and c onfidence. 

Porsonol lnformotton Includos, but is nol l1mItod to nomes. 
phono numbers. physical or moiling oddrossos. email 
addrossos, liloctylo quost,onnaIro. and gonotic tost results. 

Vitagene collect s data to operate effectively 
and provide you the best experiences with 
our products. 

v,tageno use  tho dote we collect to provtdo you tho 
sorvicos wo aflor. IncludIng Improv,ng and porsonahzmg 
your oxpenences. We may also use the data to 
communicato with you about your tost progress. your 
account. and to provide product mrormat1on ,ncluding 
occosionol marl<oling olfors. You may opt out of rocoiving 
mo,1<e11ng communication at any time. 

Your health information is yours. and yours only. Your trust means a 
great deal to us, and drives our continued commitment to protecting 
your privacy. 

14. 
Respondent reiterates these claims about its commitment to privacy and security 
throughout the Vitagene Website.  For example, as shown below, on a webpage titled “How It 
Works,” https://vitagene.com/how-it-works/, Respondent represents:  “We believe that genetic 
information deserves the highest level of security. Therefore, your privacy is a top priority at 
Vitagene.” 

Take the guesswork out of achieving your goals 

We believe that genetic information deserves the highest 

level of security. Therefore, your privacy is a  top priority at 

Vitagene. Rest assured, your enrollment information, health 

goals, medical history, and genetic information will be 

protected  by industry standard security practices. 

4 

RESPONDENT’S DECEPTIVE PROMISES TO SEPARATE DNA 
FROM OTHER IDENTIFYING INFORMATION 

Since at least 2018, Respondent has described a specific manner in which it protects the 

15. 
privacy and security of consumers’ information:  separating DNA from any other identifying 
information.  Specifically, since at least 2018, on the Vitagene Website “How It Works” 
webpage and as shown below, Respondent has provided a list of “[t]hree of the ways we protect 
your privacy,” which includes separation of DNA results from identifying information:  “Your 
results and DNA sample are stored without your name or any other common identifying 
information.” 

Three of the ways we protect your privacy: 

1.  Your results and DNA sample are stored without your 
name or any other common identifying information. 

Respondent prominently repeats this claim about separation of DNA and other 

16. 
identifying information elsewhere on the Vitagene Website.  On a webpage devoted to answering 
“Frequently Asked Questions,” https://vitagene.com/frequently-asked-questions/, as shown 
below, Respondent answers the questions, “Is my data protected?” and “How is my privacy 
protected?”, by asserting (in part):  “Your results and DNA [“sample” or “files”] are stored 
without any identifying information….” 

Is my data protected? 

• 

Vitogene uses industry standard security practices to store and protect your ONA samplo, rosu!ts. and any odditionol tnformot,on you provide. Your 

rosults and ONA sompla ore stored without any identifying ,nlormat,on and your physical sompla is dostroyod ofter it ,s processed. Vitogono does not 

shore your information with any third porty without your OlCplicit consent 

• 

Haw is my privacy protected? 

V,togono usos industry stondord security practices to store and protect your ONA filo. results. and any add,tJonal 1nformot,on you provide. Your results 

and ONA filas oro storad without any identifying ,nformotion Vitagene does not share your information w,th any third party without your explicit 

consent 

RESPONDENT’S DECEPTIVE PROMISE TO DELETE 
ALL DATA UPON CONSUMER REQUEST 

17. 
Since at least 2018, Respondent has promised that consumers can readily delete all of 
their information.  On the Vitagene Website privacy webpage, as shown below, under the sub-
heading “You’re in control of your data,” Respondent has represented:  “You can delete your 
data at any time. This will remove your information from all of our servers.” 

5 

Experience personalization without sacrificing privacy. 

Your privacy is your business 
Wo do not soil your doto to ony third-party, 

You're in control of your data 
You con dolete your doto ot ony timo This will 

Rock-solid Security 
We use tho lotost technology ond oxcoed 

,ndiv,duolly or ,n oggregote form 

removo your informot,on from oll of our 

industry-standard sacunty proctJces to 

sorvors. 

protoct your privacy. 

RESPONDENT’S DECEPTIVE PROMISE TO DESTROY DNA SALIVA SAMPLES 

Since at least 2018, Respondent has promised on multiple webpages that it destroys the 

18. 
physical DNA samples it collects from consumers after the samples have been analyzed. 
Specifically, on the Vitagene Website “How It Works” webpage, and as shown below, 
Respondent has represented:  “Vitagene destroys your physical DNA saliva sample after it has 
been analyzed.”  As also shown below, Respondent repeats this claim on the Vitagene Website 
“Frequently Asked Questions” webpage, in response to the question: 
“Is my data protected?” (“your physical sample is destroyed after it is processed”). 

Three of the ways we protect your privacy: 
1.  Your results and DNA sample are stored without your 
name or any other common identifying information. 

2.  Vitagene destroys your physical DNA saliva sample after 
it has been analyzed. 

3.  We don't share your information with any third party 
without your explicit consent. 

Is m y data p r otected? 

• 

Vitogene uses industry stonctord securrty practices to storo ond protect your ONA sample. rosults. ond ony odditionol mformotion you provide. Your 

results ond ONA sample ore stored without any 1dentity,ng ,nformot,on and your physical samplo is destroyed ofter ,t ,s processod. Vitogene does not 

shoro your 1nformo11on with ony third party w,thout your explicit consent 

Beginning in approximately December 2016, Respondent lacked measures to ensure that 

19. 
consumers’ saliva samples were destroyed shortly after they had been analyzed.  In particular, 
Respondent did not have a contract provision with its genotyping laboratory partner requiring 
such destruction. 

6 

   
 
 
RESPONDENT’S PRIVACY POLICY REVISIONS REGARDING 
MORE EXPANSIVE SHARING OF CONSUMERS’ 
SENSITIVE PERSONAL INFORMATION WITH THIRD PARTIES 

From at least 2017 until April 2020, Respondent’s privacy policy defined “personal 
20. 
information” to include “Enrollment Information, Family History, Lab work, Health Goals, 
Medical History, Genetic Data, and Enrollment Form.”  The privacy policy also stated:  “A large 
portion of the Personal Information we collect, use, share, and store is sensitive in nature, 
including any and all medical information for example Genetic Data & Other Personal 
Information.” 

Consistent with Respondent’s numerous prominent claims about maintaining privacy and 

21. 
security for the sensitive health and genetic information Respondent collects from consumers, 
from at least 2017 until April 2020, Respondent’s privacy policy stated that Respondent would 
share consumers’ personal information with third parties only in limited circumstances for 
narrow purposes.  Specifically, the privacy policy stated that Respondent would share 
consumers’ personal information with their physicians or other medical professionals under 
consumers’ direction; with Respondent’s business partners or service providers, such as credit 
card processors or contracted genotyping laboratories, “only as necessary to” help Respondent 
provide, understand, or improve its services; as required by law; with any third party with a 
consumer’s prior consent; or via transfer of Respondent’s business to another entity.  During part 
of that time period, Respondent’s privacy policy also stated that Respondent would share 
consumers’ personal information with business partners, affiliates, sponsors, or other third 
parties in an aggregate, non-personally identifiable form. 

From at least 2017 to April 2020, Respondent’s privacy policy also stated:  “We reserve 

22. 
the right to update, change, modify or otherwise alter this Privacy Policy at any time. If any 
material changes are made to this Privacy Policy, Vitagene will notify you by posting the revised 
Privacy Policy on the Services or notifying you through the Services. ANY ACCESS OR USE 
OF THE SERVICES BY YOU AFTER THE CHANGES GO INTO EFFECT SHALL 
CONSTITUTE AND BE DEEMED YOUR AGREEMENT TO THIS PRIVACY POLICY.” 

In April and December 2020, Respondent published revised privacy policies 

23. 
(collectively, “Respondent’s 2020 privacy policies”) that apply to all of Respondent’s customers, 
including those who purchased products and services from Respondent solely before April 2020. 
Compared to Respondent’s previous privacy policy, Respondent’s 2020 privacy policies 
significantly expand the types of third parties with whom, and the purposes for which, 
Respondent may share consumers’ personal information.  For example, Respondent’s 2020 
privacy policies state that Respondent shares personal information with third parties such as 
pharmacies, supermarket chains, nutrition and supplement manufacturers, and other providers 
and retailers so they can promote and offer their products and services to Respondent’s 
customers; with third parties for their own services and marketing purposes unless a customer 
opts out of such sharing; and with partners, third parties, or affiliates, including for those third 
parties’ own purposes.  Respondent’s December 2020 version of its privacy policy currently 
remains in effect.  

7 

 
 
 
24.  When Respondent posted the 2020 privacy policies, Respondent did not take any 
additional steps to notify consumers who had provided sensitive personal information to 
Respondent prior to the 2020 privacy policy changes or to obtain consumers’ consent for the 
material changes to its policies with respect to the sharing of such information, including sharing 
that Respondent’s previously posted privacy policy had stated would take place only with the 
consumer’s consent. 

Although Respondent has not yet implemented the broader information sharing practices 
25. 
stated in its 2020 privacy policies, it could do so at any time without further notice to consumers. 

RESPONDENT’S PUBLIC EXPOSURE OF 
CONSUMERS’ HEALTH AND GENETIC INFORMATION 

As part of its information technology infrastructure, Respondent uses Amazon Web 

26. 
Services’ (“AWS’s”) Simple Storage Service (the “Amazon S3 Datastore”).  The Amazon S3 
Datastore is a scalable cloud storage service that entities use to store and retrieve data in virtual 
containers, called “Buckets.” 

Respondent stores a variety of files containing sensitive health and genetic information in 

27. 
Amazon S3 Datastore Buckets.  These files include, among other things, consumers’ Health 
Reports; genotype data called single-nucleotide polymorphisms (“SNPs”), which are the most 
common type of genetic variation among people; and other raw genotype data. 

28. 
Despite the fact that Respondent stores consumers’ sensitive personal information in the 
Amazon S3 Datastore, Respondent did not uniformly apply basic safeguards to the data in each 
of its Amazon S3 Datastore Buckets.  In or about 2016, Respondent created a publicly accessible 
Bucket in which Respondent stored Health Reports for at least 2,383 consumers and a publicly 
accessible Bucket in which Respondent stored raw genetic data (sometimes accompanied by first 
name) for at least 227 consumers (“Health and Genetic Buckets”).  Respondent did not use any 
access controls to restrict access to this sensitive data, encrypt it, log or monitor access to it, or 
inventory it to help ensure ongoing security.  As a result of Respondent’s disregard for the basic 
security of the Health and Genetic Buckets, Respondent publicly exposed online the health and 
genetic information of more than 2,600 consumers. 

Between July 2017 and June 2019, Respondent received at least three warnings that it 

29. 
was storing consumers’ unencrypted health, genetic, and other personal information in publicly 
accessible Buckets.   

Respondent received its first warning in July 2017.  At that time, AWS sent Respondent 

30. 
an email message, with the subject line “Securing Amazon S3 Buckets,” “to remind 
[Respondent] that one or more of [its] Amazon S3 bucket access control lists (ACLs) [was] 
currently configured to allow read access from any user on the Internet.”  The message included 
a list of six of Respondent’s Buckets that were “configured to allow read access from anyone on 
the Internet,” including the Health and Genetic Buckets.  The message encouraged Respondent 
to promptly review its Buckets and provided a link to the AWS Management Console where 
Respondent could have quickly reviewed its Bucket access controls and a link to guidance about 

8 

 
how to restrict Bucket access.  Despite this warning, Respondent did not restrict access to the 
Health and Genetic Buckets. 

31. 
Respondent received its second warning in November 2018, when a security testing 
company that conducted a web application penetration test for Respondent “found that uploaded 
DNA data was being stored in Amazon S3 . . . without any access controls.”  Despite this 
warning, Respondent did not restrict access to the Health and Genetic Buckets. 

In June 2019, Respondent received its third warning.  On June 27, 2019, a security 

32. 
researcher emailed Respondent’s support inbox regarding a security issue with Respondent’s 
web application.  On July 1, 2019, the security researcher sent Respondent an email with 
publicly accessible links to Health Reports and files in the Health and Genetic Buckets.  The 
security researcher stated that he had “been able to confirm via the details” that the publicly 
exposed files pertained to “real individuals and real doctors” and that they were not “testing or 
‘made up’ records.”  The security researcher later reported his findings to the news media, which 
published articles about this breach of security in July 2019. 

33. 
In July 2019, Respondent began an investigation into the public exposure of the Health 
and Genetic Buckets.  Because Respondent had not taken steps to log access to the Health and 
Genetic Buckets, Respondent was unable to determine exactly when the Buckets had been 
created or whether anyone other than the security researcher had accessed, downloaded, or 
transferred any of the sensitive health, genetic, and personal information they contained. 

34. 
In August 2019, Respondent notified affected consumers about the breach.  Numerous 
consumers complained to Respondent about its failure to safeguard their sensitive information. 
For example, one consumer wrote to Respondent:  “I am horrified that my dna is out there for 
anyone to use.”  Another wrote:  “This is worse than credit card and financial info because it’s 
related to my health.”  A third simply said:  “Shame on Vitagene for not having its consumers in 
their best interest.” 

Because Respondent did not maintain a data inventory, from approximately 2016 through 

35. 
July 1, 2019, Respondent could not search the Health and Genetic Buckets in response to 
consumers’ requests for Respondent to delete their data. 

Count I 
Security Misrepresentation – Exceeding Industry Standards 

As described in Paragraph 12, Respondent represented, directly or indirectly, expressly or 

36. 
by implication, that it exceeded industry-standard security practices to protect the privacy of 
consumers’ sensitive personal information, including their health and genetic information. 

In fact, as set forth in Paragraphs 26-35, Respondent’s security practices did not exceed 

37. 
industry-standard security practices to protect the privacy of consumers’ sensitive personal 
information.  Therefore, the representations set forth in Paragraph 12 are false or misleading. 

9 

 
Count II 
Security Misrepresentation – Storing DNA Results without Identifying Information 

As described in Paragraphs 15-16, Respondent represented, directly or indirectly, 

38. 
expressly or by implication, that it stored consumers’ DNA results without name or any other 
common identifying information. 

In fact, as set forth in Paragraphs 9 and 28, Respondent stored DNA results with name 

39. 
and other common identifying information.  Therefore, the representations set forth in 
Paragraphs 15-16 are false or misleading. 

Count III 
Privacy Misrepresentation – Data Deletion 

As described in Paragraph 17, Respondent represented, directly or indirectly, expressly or 

40. 
by implication, that if a consumer requested deletion of his or her data, Respondent would 
remove all of that consumer’s information. 

In fact, as set forth in Paragraph 35, because Respondent did not have an inventory of 

41. 
consumers’ information, including in the Health and Genetic Buckets it exposed publicly, in at 
least some instances, Respondent could not delete all consumer information for consumers who 
requested deletion of their data.  Therefore, the representations set forth in Paragraph 17 are false 
or misleading. 

Count IV 
Privacy Misrepresentation – Saliva Sample Destruction 

As described in Paragraph 18, Respondent represented, directly or indirectly, expressly or 

42. 
by implication, that it destroys the consumer’s physical DNA saliva sample shortly after the 
sample has been analyzed. 

In fact, as set forth in Paragraph 19, beginning in approximately December 2016, 

43. 
Respondent did not have measures in place to ensure that consumers’ saliva samples were 
destroyed shortly after they had been analyzed.  In particular, Respondent did not have a contract 
provision with its genotyping laboratory partner requiring such destruction.  Therefore, the 
representations set forth in Paragraph 18 are false or misleading. 

Count V 
Unfair Adoption of Material Retroactive Privacy Policy Changes Regarding 
Sharing of Consumers’ Sensitive Personal Information with Third Parties 

44. 
As described in Paragraphs 20-25, in April and December 2020, Respondent posted 
revised privacy policies containing material changes to Respondent’s practices for sharing 
consumers’ sensitive personal information with third parties, including the health and genetic 
information of consumers who purchased products and services from Respondent solely before 
April 2020.  Respondent made those material retroactive changes without taking any additional 
steps to notify consumers or obtain consumers’ consent even though Respondent’s numerous 

10 

 
 
 
prominent privacy and security claims when it had collected consumers' sensitive personal 
infonnation, as described in Paragraphs  I 0-16, demonstrate Respondent's understanding that 
consumers consider it impo1iant to be able to control and limit access to such infonnation. 
Unauthorized access to a consumer's sensitive health and genetic info1mation can lead to a 
variety ofhanns, including discrimination or economic or reputational injmy.  Accordingly, 
Respondent's retroactive application of its revised privacy policies caused or is likely to cause 
substantial injmy to consumers that is not outweighed by counte1vailing benefits to consumers or 
competition and is not reasonably avoidable by consumers.  This is an unfair act or practice. 

VIOLATIONS OF SECTION 5 OF THE FTC ACT 

The acts and practices of Respondent as alleged in this complaint constitute unfair or 

45. 
deceptive acts or practices, in or affecting commerce in violation of Section 5(a) of the Federal 
Trade Commission Act. 

THEREFORE, the Federal Trade Commission this 6th day of September, 2023, has 

issued this Complaint against Resp ondent. 

By the Commission. 

SEAL: 

April J.  Tabor 
Secretruy 

11 

