UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION 

2023185 

COMMISSIONERS: 

Lina M. Khan, Chair 
Noah Joshua Phillips 
Rebecca Kelly Slaughter 
Christine S. Wilson 
Alvaro M. Bedoya 

In the Matter of 

DRIZLY, LLC, a Limited Liability Company, 

DOCKET NO. 

and 

JAMES CORY RELLAS, individually, and as an 
officer of DRIZLY, LLC. 

COMPLAINT 

The Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”), having reason to believe that Drizly, LLC, a 

limited liability company, and James Cory Rellas, individually and as an officer of Drizly, LLC 
(collectively “Respondents”), violated provisions of the Federal Trade Commission Act, 15 
U.S.C. § 45(a)(1), and it appearing to the Commission that this proceeding is in the public 
interest, alleges: 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

Respondent Drizly, LLC (“Drizly”) is a Delaware limited liability company with its 
principal place of business at 501 Boylston Street, Boston, MA 02216.  Until October 13, 
2021, Drizly was a subsidiary of The Drizly Group, Inc., a holding company.  On October 13, 
2021, Drizly, LLC became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Uber Technologies, Inc. (“Uber”). 

Respondent James Cory Rellas (“Rellas”), is the Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) of 
Drizly, LLC.  Individually or in concert with others, he had the authority to control, or 
participated in, the acts and practices alleged in this complaint. 

Respondents’ acts and practices as alleged in this Complaint have been in or affecting 
commerce, as “commerce” is defined in Section 4 of the Federal Trade Commission Act. 

Summary of the Case 

Drizly failed to use appropriate information security practices to protect consumers’ 
personal information.  These failures allowed a malicious actor to access Drizly’s 
consumer database and steal information relating to 2.5 million consumers, as described 
in greater detail below.  Rellas is responsible for this failure, as he did not implement, or 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

properly delegate the responsibility to implement, reasonable information security 
practices.  Indeed, as CEO of Drizly prior to and during the breach, Rellas hired senior 
executives dedicated to finance, legal, marketing, retail, human resources, product, and 
analytics, but failed to hire a senior executive responsible for the security of consumers’ 
personal information collected and maintained by Drizly.  

Drizly’s Business Model and Operations 

Drizly operates an e-commerce platform that enables local retailers to sell alcohol online 
to consumers of legal drinking age.  Retailers choose the products to offer and the prices 
to charge on the platform.  When a consumer places an order through Drizly’s website or 
one of Drizly’s mobile apps, the retailer accepts the order and facilitates delivery of the 
purchase. 

Drizly’s platform includes tools to verify a consumer’s age; monitor, track, and analyze 
orders; and support customer service.  The platform also collects and stores both personal 
information that consumers provide and information that it automatically obtains from 
consumers’ computers and mobile devices. 

Drizly was founded in 2012 and now has more than 360 employees.  The company 
maintains a headquarters in Boston, Massachusetts and an office in Denver, Colorado.  It 
advertises itself as North America’s “largest online marketplace for alcohol,” partnering 
with more than 4,000 retailers across 1,600 urban and suburban markets.  Drizly claims 
that it facilitates sales of alcohol for delivery in more than 33 states and the District of 
Columbia.  It also claims that its retail partners saw average growth in 2020 of 350%, 
with an average monthly number of orders of more than 230 per store. 

Rellas has been Drizly’s Chief Executive Officer since August 2018.  He was previously 
Drizly’s Chief Operating Officer and is a co-founder of Drizly.  At all times relevant to 
the allegations in this Complaint, Rellas had the authority to control, or participated in, 
Drizly’s information security practices. 

Drizly’s Information Technology Infrastructure 

Drizly uses a third-party service called the Amazon Relational Database Service 
(“Amazon RDS”) to host its production database environment (the software Drizly uses 
to operate its e-commerce platform).  Amazon RDS is a cloud service provided by 
Amazon Web Services (“AWS”). 

Drizly’s production environment includes a variety of applications and databases, some 
of which store personal information.  These databases contain, among other things, 
names, email addresses, postal addresses, phone numbers, unique device identifiers, order 
histories, partial payment information, geolocation information, and consumer data 
(including, e.g., income level, marital status, gender, ethnicity, existence of children, and 
home value) purchased from third parties.  The databases also contain passwords that 
were hashed—converted into new values so as not to store the password itself in the 
database.  The passwords were hashed using the bcrypt function or MD5, the latter of 
which is cryptographically broken, and widely considered insecure.  This personal 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
information can be misused to facilitate identity theft and other consumer harm.  Drizly’s 
databases contain some or all of this personal information for more than 2.5 million 
consumers. 

11. 

Drizly also uses the GitHub software platform (“GitHub”) for the development, 
management, and storage of source code that supports the Drizly website and mobile 
apps.  GitHub facilitates collaboration among developers, allowing them to store and 
share project files, including images, spreadsheets, and data sets, as well as the histories 
of all source code changes, in “repositories.”  Through its GitHub account, Drizly 
maintains a number of repositories that hold company data and projects, and which at one 
point improperly held AWS credentials, which could be used to access the company’s 
production environment. 

12. 

Drizly employees are required to use their personal GitHub accounts to access Drizly 
projects and data using GitHub, with the company granting those accounts access to its 
repositories. 

Drizly’s Information Security Practices 

13. 

Drizly failed to use reasonable information security practices to protect consumers’ 
personal information.  Among other things, Drizly failed to: 

a.  Develop adequate written information security standards, policies, procedures, or 
practices; assess or enforce compliance with the written standards, policies, 
procedures, and practices that it did have; and implement training for employees 
(including engineers) regarding such standards, policies, procedures, and 
practices; 

b.  Securely store AWS and database login credentials, by including them in GitHub 
repositories, and failed to use readily available measures to scan these repositories 
for unsecured credentials (such as usernames, passwords, API keys, secure access 
tokens, and asymmetric private keys); 

c.  Impose reasonable data access controls such as:  (1) requiring unique and 

complex passwords (i.e., long passwords not used by the individual for any other 
online service) or multifactor authentication to access source code or databases; 
(2) enforcing role-based access controls; (3) monitoring and terminating 
employee and contractor access to source code once they no longer needed such 
access; (4) restricting inbound connections to known IP addresses; and (5) 
requiring appropriate authentications between Drizly applications and the 
production environment; 

d.  Prevent data loss by monitoring for unauthorized attempts to transfer or exfiltrate 
consumers’ personal information outside the company’s network boundaries; 
continually log and monitor its systems and assets to identify data security events; 
and perform regular assessments as to the effectiveness of protection measures; 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
e.  Test, audit, assess, or review its products’ or applications’ security features; and 

conduct regular risk assessments, vulnerability scans, and penetration testing of its 
networks and databases; and 

f.  Have a policy, procedure, or practice for inventorying and deleting consumers’ 

personal information stored on its network that was no longer necessary. 

Drizly’s Information Security Statements 

14. 

Drizly made explicit representations about its information security practices that led 
consumers to believe that it used reasonable and appropriate information security 
practices to protect their personal information. 

15. 

For example, Drizly’s Privacy Policy in effect from September 1, 2016 until 
approximately October 1, 2019 included the following statement: 

Security.  All information we collect is securely stored within our 
database, and we use standard, industry-wide, commercially reasonable 
security practices such as 128-bit encryption, firewalls and SSL (Secure 
Socket Layers). 

(Exhibit A, Drizly.com Privacy Policy) 

16. 

Drizly’s Privacy Policy in effect after October 1, 2019 contained similar language: 

Security.  We use standard security practices such as encryption and firewalls to 
protect the information we collect from you. 

(Exhibit B, Drizly.com Privacy Policy) 

2020 Breach of Personal Information 

17. 

18. 

19. 

Drizly’s failures, as described in Paragraph 13, led to a breach in or around July 2020 of 
its production environment, and the exfiltration of the personal information of 2.5 million 
consumers. 

In April 2018, Drizly granted a company executive access to its GitHub repositories so 
that he could participate in a one-day hackathon (a collaborative programming event). 
Following the event, Drizly failed to monitor and terminate the executive’s access, even 
though such access was no longer needed.  The lack of need was underscored by the fact 
that the executive never accessed the repositories after the hackathon and started 
employment for a different Drizly subsidiary at the beginning of 2020. 

Drizly failed to require unique and complex passwords or multifactor authentication for 
personal GitHub accounts that it granted access to its repositories, nor did it leverage 
Single Sign On for the GitHub organization.  Consequently, the executive’s GitHub 
account used a seven-character alphanumeric password that he had used for other 
personal accounts and did not use multifactor authentication although it was available. 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

In early July 2020, a malicious actor accessed the executive’s GitHub account by reusing 
credentials from an unrelated breach.  The malicious actor then used the executive’s 
GitHub account to access one of Drizly’s GitHub repositories containing source code, 
which it could use to find vulnerabilities in Drizly’s software.  It was also able to access, 
in those same repositories, AWS and database credentials. 

Drizly employees stored these credentials in the company’s GitHub repository even 
though GitHub security guidance and numerous publicly-reported security incidents since 
2013 have highlighted the dangers of storing passwords and other access keys in GitHub 
repositories.  For example, the Commission’s 2018 Complaint against Uber Technologies 
Inc. specifically publicized and described credential reuse, lack of multifactor 
authentication, and insecure AWS credentials exposed through GitHub repository code as 
failures contributing to the breach and exposure of consumers’ personal information. 

The intruder used the compromised credentials from Drizly’s GitHub repositories to 
modify the company’s AWS security settings.  This modification provided the intruder 
unfettered access to Drizly’s production environment, including databases containing 
millions of records of user information.  The intruder proceeded to exfiltrate Drizly’s 
User Table, comprising more than 2.5 million records. 

Drizly did not itself detect the breach of its production environment or discover the 
exfiltration of the personal information of nearly 2.5 million consumers.  Drizly only 
learned of the breach from media and social media reports describing its customers’ 
accounts for sale on dark web forums. 

The GitHub compromise and breach of Drizly’s production environment was not the 
company’s first security incident involving GitHub.  In 2018, another Drizly employee 
posted Drizly AWS credentials to their individual public (personal) GitHub repository. 
The employee was unable to delete the GitHub posting or rotate the AWS credentials 
prior to the public exploitation of the credentials; as a result, Drizly’s AWS servers were 
used to mine cryptocurrency until Drizly learned of the exploitation and changed the 
credentials.  Following this incident, Respondents were on notice of the potential dangers 
of exposing AWS credentials and should have taken appropriate steps to improve GitHub 
security, including implementation of policies, procedures, and technical measures to 
address the security practices of employees with access to Drizly’s organizational GitHub 
repositories. 

25. 

Drizly’s own post-breach analyses concluded the company’s lack of security 
preparedness, including failures to operate a formal security program or practice basic 
security hygiene, was exposed as a result of a data breach. 

Consumer Injury 

26. 

27. 

Respondents’ failures to provide reasonable security for consumers’ personal information 
have caused or are likely to cause substantial injury to consumers. 

Consumers have suffered or are likely to suffer substantial injury in the form of increased 
exposure to fraud and identity theft, leading to monetary loss and time spent remedying 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the problem.  Personal information exfiltrated from Drizly’s databases was offered for 
sale on two different, publicly-accessible dark web forums, including raidforums.com, a 
website where criminals post and offer for sale information from compromised databases. 
Malicious actors combine such information to perpetrate fraud (for example, by opening 
fraudulent lines of credit) or obtain additional personal information by impersonating 
companies with whom the target has previously transacted.  The opening of fraudulent 
accounts will cause consumers financial harm in the form of denied transactions due to 
damaged credit reflected in consumer reports, and time lost in trying to correct those 
reports.  Moreover, as a result of Respondents’ failures to secure consumers’ personal 
information, including in many cases their physical addresses, this information is now in 
the possession of criminals.  Consumers are harmed when criminals know and sell their 
personal information. 

These harms were not reasonably avoidable by consumers, as consumers had no way of 
independently knowing about Respondents’ security failures (described in Paragraph 13 
above). 

Respondents could have prevented or mitigated the failures described in Paragraph 13 
through well known, readily available, and relatively low-cost measures.  For example, 
Drizly could have required regular review of access permissions, multifactor 
authentication for all employees with access to code repositories, or scanning of code 
repositories for unsecured credentials.  Any of these measures would likely have 
prevented the July 2020 breach. 

Violations of the FTC Act 

The acts and practices of Respondents, as alleged in this Complaint, constitute unfair 
and/or deceptive acts or practices, in or affecting commerce, in violation of Section 5(a) 
of the Federal Trade Commission Act. 

Count I – Drizly’s Unfair Information Security Practices 

As alleged in Paragraphs 13 to 29, Respondents’ failure to employ reasonable security 
measures to protect consumers’ personal information caused or is likely to cause 
substantial injury to consumers that is not outweighed by countervailing benefits to 
consumers or competition and is not reasonably avoidable by consumers themselves.  
This practice was, and is, an unfair act or practice. 

Count II – Drizly’s Deceptive Security Statements 

Through the means described in Paragraphs 14 to 16, Respondents have represented, 
directly or indirectly, expressly or by implication, that Drizly used appropriate safeguards 
to protect consumers’ personal information. 

In truth and in fact, as described in Paragraph 13, Respondents did not maintain 
appropriate safeguards to protect consumers’ personal information.  Therefore, the 
representations set forth in Paragraph 32 are false or misleading. 

28. 

29. 

30. 

31. 

32. 

33. 

6 

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THEREFORE, the Federal Trade Commission this ___ day of ____, 2022, has issued this 

complaint against Respondents. 

By the Commission. 

SEAL: 

April J. Tabor 
Secretary 

7 

 
 
 
 
Exhibit A 

Drizly.com Privacy Policy, September 1, 2016 

Securi~. All  infonnation we  collect is  securely stored ·within our database, and we use  standard, industry-wide, 
commercially  reasonable  s•ecurity  practices  such  as  128-bit  encryption,  firewalls  and  SSL  (Secure  Socket 
Layers) .  However,  as  effective  as  encryption  technology  is,  no  security  system  is  impenetrable.  We  cannot 
guarantee  the  security  of our  database, nor  can  we  guarantee  that  information  you  supply  won't be  intercepted 
while being transmitted to us over the Internet, and any information you transmit to  Drizly you do so at your own 
risk.  We  recommend  that  you  use  unique  numbers,  letters  and  special  characters  in  your  password  and  not 
disclose  your password to  anyone.  If you do  share  your  password or personal  information with others, you are 
responsible  for  all actions taken in the  name  of your account.  Please review  our Tenns of Service for  additional 
infom1ation. If your password has  been  compromised  for  any  reason, you  should  immediately notify  Drizly  at 
info@drizly,:.com and change your password. 

Exhibit B 

Drizly.com Privacy Policy, October 1, 2019 

Security...  We  use standard security practices such  as  encryption  and  firewalls to  protect the 
information we  collect from  you.  No security system  is  perfect, and  we do not guarantee the 
security of your information. You  are responsible for all  actions taken  in  the  name of your 
account, so use your discretion when providing information  and  managing your account.  Use 
unique numbers , letters and  special  characters in  your password and  do not disclose it to 
anyone.  Please review our Terms  of Service  for additional  information.  If your password  is 
compromised  notify us  immediately at  info@drizly.com  and change  your password. We  may 
store the  information we collect on  servers in  the United  States. 

