COMMISSIONERS:

102 3116

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION

Jon Leibowitz, Chairman
J. Thomas Rosch
Edith Ramirez
Julie Brill

__________________________________________

In the Matter of 

)
)
)
)
)
)
__________________________________________)

UPROMISE, INC., 

a corporation.

DOCKET NO. C-4351

COMPLAINT

The Federal Trade Commission, having reason to believe that Upromise, Inc.
(“Upromise” or “respondent”), a corporation, has violated the Federal Trade Commission Act
(“FTC Act”), and it appearing to the Commission that this proceeding is in the public interest,
alleges:

1.

2.

3.

Upromise is a Delaware corporation with its principal office at 95 Wells Avenue, Suite
160, Newton, Massachusetts 02459.

The acts and practices of respondent, as alleged herein, have been in or affecting
commerce, as “commerce” is defined in Section 4 of the FTC Act.

RESPONDENT’S BUSINESS PRACTICES AND REPRESENTATIONS TO
CONSUMERS

Upromise offers a membership service to consumers.  A consumer who is a member of
Upromise and purchases products and services from Upromise partner merchants can
receive cash rebates.  Upromise places these cash rebates into a college savings account
for the consumer.

        
4.

5.

6.

7.

Since 2005, Upromise disseminated or caused to be disseminated through its website,
www.upromise.com, a software toolbar referred to as the Upromise TurboSaver Toolbar
(the “Toolbar”) for consumers to download and install onto their computers.  Among
other things, the Toolbar highlighted Upromise partner companies in consumers’ search
results, so that consumers could more easily determine which companies were Upromise
partners.  (See Exhibit 1). 

The Toolbar incorporated a “personalized offers” feature that, when enabled, would
collect and transmit information through the consumer’s browser.  The personalized
offers feature used consumer browsing information to provide targeted advertising to
consumers through the browser.  Upromise engaged a service provider to develop the
Toolbar and the personalized offers feature.

During the download process for the Toolbar, where the personalized offers feature was
offered users were presented with one of several versions of a pop-up window that
contained a check-box next to text stating “Enable Personalized Offers,” (See, e.g.,
Exhibits 2- 4).  Until mid-January 2010, Upromise provided the following description of
the personalized offers feature, either directly in the pop-up window or if the consumer
clicked on a hyperlink labeled “Show”: 

By enabling the Personalized Offers feature, information about the web sites you
visit will be collected.  This information is used to provide college savings
opportunities tailored to you.

See, e.g., Exhibit 2, Exhibit 3 (operational from approximately July 2009 to
January 2010), and Exhibit 4 (operational from approximately October 2008 to
May 2009).

In some instances, the check-box to “Enable Personalized Offers” was pre-checked to
enable the personalized offers feature by default.  (See, e.g., Exhibit 2, operational from
approximately July 2009 to January 2010).  

When the personalized offers feature was enabled, the feature modified the Toolbar to
collect extensive information about consumers’ online activities and transmit it to the
service provider for analysis.  (Hereafter this modified version of the Toolbar with the
personalized offers feature enabled is referred to as the “Targeting Tool.”)  The Targeting
Tool collected the names of all websites visited, all links clicked, and information that
consumers entered into some web pages such as usernames, passwords, and search terms. 
The Targeting Tool’s data collection occurred in the background as a consumer used the
Internet, and there was no way for consumers – without special software and technical
expertise – to discover the extent of the data collection.  Moreover, from July 2009 to
mid-January 2010, the Targeting Tool was reconfigured to include consumers’

Page 2 of 6

8.

9.

10.  

11.

12.

interactions with forms on secure web pages, which companies such as banks and online
retailers provide to safeguard consumer data.  The Targeting Tool was enabled on at least
150,000 consumers’ computers.

TM

 Privacy Statement, which was available on the Upromise

The Upromise TurboSaver
website and at times through a link during the download process, stated that the Toolbar
might “infrequently” collect some personal information.  It further stated that a filter,
termed a “proprietary rules engine,” would “remove any personally identifiable
information” prior to transmission.  (See, e.g., Exhibit 5, operational from approximately
October 2008 to September 2009).  The TurboSaver
 Privacy Statement also stated that
“every commercially viable effort” would be made “to purge their databases of any
personally identifiable information.”  

TM

In fact, although a filter was used to instruct the Targeting Tool to avoid certain data, the
filter was too narrow and improperly structured.  For example, although the filter was
intended to prevent the collection of financial account personal identification numbers
and would have prevented collection of that data if a website used the field name “PIN,”
the filter would not have prevented such collection if a website used field names such as
“personal ID” or “security code.”

The Targeting Tool transmitted the information it gathered – including in some cases
credit card and financial account numbers, security codes and expiration dates, and
Social Security numbers entered into web pages, including secure web pages – over the
Internet in clear text.  Tools for capturing data in transit, for example over unsecured
wireless networks such as those often provided in coffee shops and other public spaces,
are commonly available, making such clear-text data vulnerable to interception.  The
misuse of such information – particularly financial account information and Social
Security numbers – can facilitate identity theft and related consumer harms.  

On approximately January 21, 2010, Upromise halted all data collection through the
Targeting Tool after a security researcher disclosed the scope of the information
collected and the fact that it was transmitted in clear text.

TM

 Privacy Statement, respondent has disseminated or caused to be

In addition to the representations made in the download process and in the Upromise
TurboSaver
disseminated the Upromise Privacy Statement, which was available on the Upromise
website and through a link in the TurboSaver
Privacy Statement stated: 

 Privacy Statement.  The Upromise

TM

Page 3 of 6

Upromise is committed to earning and keeping your trust.  We understand the
need for our customers’ personal information to remain secure and private and we
have implemented policies and procedures designed to safeguard your
information.

Exhibit 6 (operational from approximately June 2008 to January 2010).

13.

Similarly, the Upromise Security Statement, also available on the Upromise website,
stated: 

Our members’ security and privacy are critically important issues for Upromise. 
We are proud of the innovations we have made to protect your data and personal
identity throughout the Upromise service.  Upromise protects your data by... SSL,
Data, and Password encryption technology....

Using the Secure Sockets Layer protocol (SSL), Upromise automatically encrypts
your sensitive information in transit from your computer to ours.

* * *

Upromise security architecture and security procedures are audited and inspected
by industry leaders specializing in security processes and technologies.

Exhibit 7 (operational from approximately January 2008 to January 2010).  

14.

Respondent engaged in a number of practices that, taken together, failed to provide
reasonable and appropriate security for consumer information collected and transmitted
by the Targeting Tool.  Among other things, respondent:  

a.

b.

created unnecessary risks of unauthorized access to consumer information by the
Targeting Tool transmitting sensitive information from secure web pages, such as
financial account numbers and security codes, in clear readable text over the
Internet;

failed to use readily available, low-cost measures to assess and address the risk
that the Targeting Tool would collect such sensitive consumer information it was
not authorized to collect.  For example, respondent did not test the Targeting Tool
before distributing it to consumers or monitor the Targeting Tool’s operation
thereafter to verify that the information it collected was consistent with
respondent’s policies; 

Page 4 of 6

 
  
c.

d.

failed to ensure that employees responsible for the information collection
program received adequate guidance and training about security risks and
respondent’s privacy and security policies; and

failed to take adequate measures to ensure that its service provider employed
reasonable and appropriate measures to protect consumer information and to
implement the information collection program in a manner consistent with the
respondent’s privacy and security policies and contractual provisions designed to
protect consumer information.

VIOLATIONS OF THE FTC ACT

Count 1

15.       Through the means described in Paragraph 6, respondent has represented, expressly or by

implication, that the Targeting Tool would collect and transmit information about the
websites consumers visit.  Respondent failed to disclose that the Targeting Tool would
also collect and transmit much more extensive information about the Internet behavior
that occurs on consumers’ computers, and, for the period between July 2009 and January
2010, information consumers provided in secure sessions when interacting with
third-party websites, shopping carts, and online accounts – such as credit card and
financial account numbers, security codes and expiration dates, and Social Security
numbers consumers entered into such web pages.  These facts would be material to
consumers.  Respondent’s failure to disclose these facts, in light of the representations
made, was, and is, a deceptive practice.

Count 2

16.      Through the means described in Paragraph 13, respondent has represented, expressly or

by implication, that information transmitted by the Toolbar would be encrypted in transit.

17. 

In truth and in fact, as described in Paragraph 10, information transmitted by the Toolbar
was not encrypted in transit.  Therefore, the representation set forth in paragraph 13 was,
and is, false or misleading and constitutes a deceptive act or practice.    

Count 3

18.     Through the means described in Paragraphs 12 and 13, respondent has represented,
expressly or by implication, that it employs reasonable and appropriate measures to
protect data obtained from consumers from unauthorized access.   

Page 5 of 6

19.    

In truth and in fact, as described in Paragraph 14, respondent did not implement
reasonable and appropriate measures to protect data obtained from consumers from
unauthorized access.  Therefore, the representations set forth in Paragraphs 12 and 13
were, and are, false or misleading and constitutes a deceptive act or practice.   

Count 4

20.   As described in Paragraphs 9, 10, and 14, respondent’s failure to employ reasonable and
appropriate measures to protect consumer information – including credit card and
financial account numbers, security codes and expiration dates, and Social Security
numbers – caused or was likely to cause substantial injury to consumers that is not offset
by countervailing benefits to consumers or competition and is not reasonably avoidable
by consumers.  This practice was, and is, an unfair act or practice.

21.

The acts and practices of respondent as alleged in this complaint constitute unfair or
deceptive acts or practices in or affecting commerce in violation of Section 5(a) of the
Federal Trade Commission Act.

THEREFORE, the Federal Trade Commission this twenty-seventh day of March, 2012,

has issued this complaint against respondent.

By the Commission.

                                                                        Secretary

Donald S. Clark                                                           

Page 6 of 6

