UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION

______________________________

In the Matter of

)
)
)
)
)
)
______________________________)

MICROSOFT CORPORATION,

a corporation.

FILE NO. 012 3240

AGREEMENT CONTAINING
CONSENT ORDER

The Federal Trade Commission has conducted an investigation of certain acts and practices of
Microsoft, a corporation (“proposed respondent”).  Proposed respondent, having been represented by
counsel, is willing to enter into an agreement containing a consent order resolving the allegations contained
in the attached draft complaint.  Therefore,

IT IS HEREBY AGREED by and between Microsoft, by its duly authorized officer, and counsel

for the Federal Trade Commission that:

1.

Proposed respondent Microsoft is a Washington corporation with its principal office or

place of business at One Microsoft Way, Redmond, Washington 98052.

2.

3.

Proposed respondent admits all the jurisdictional facts set forth in the draft complaint.

Proposed respondent waives:

(a)

(b)

(c)

Any further procedural steps;

The requirement that the Commission's decision contain a statement of findings of
fact and conclusions of law; and

All rights to seek judicial review or otherwise to challenge or contest the validity
of the order entered pursuant to this agreement.

4.

This agreement shall not become part of the public record of the proceeding unless and until
it is accepted by the Commission.  If this agreement is accepted by the Commission, it, together with the

Page 1 of 8

draft complaint, will be placed on the public record for a period of thirty (30) days and information about
it publicly released.  The Commission thereafter may either withdraw its acceptance of this agreement and
so notify proposed respondent, in which event it will take such action as it may consider appropriate, or
issue and serve its complaint (in such form as the circumstances may require) and decision in disposition
of the proceeding.

5.

This agreement is for settlement purposes only and does not constitute an admission by
proposed respondent that the law has been violated as alleged in the draft complaint, or that the facts as
alleged in the draft complaint, other than the jurisdictional facts, are true.

6.

This  agreement  contemplates  that,  if  it  is  accepted  by  the  Commission,  and  if  such
acceptance is not subsequently withdrawn by the Commission pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.34
of the Commission's Rules, the Commission may, without further notice to proposed respondent, (1) issue
its  complaint  corresponding  in  form  and  substance  with  the  attached  draft  complaint  and  its  decision
containing the following order in disposition of the proceeding, and (2) make information about it public.
When so entered, the order shall have the same force and effect and may be altered, modified, or set aside
in the same manner and within the same time provided by statute for other orders.  The order shall become
final upon service. Delivery of the complaint and the decision and order to proposed respondent’s address
as stated in this agreement by any means specified in Section 4.4(a) of the Commission's Rules shall
constitute service.  Proposed respondent waives any right it may have to any other manner of service.  The
complaint may be used in construing the terms of the order.  No agreement, understanding, representation,
or interpretation not contained in the order or the agreement may be used to vary or contradict the terms
of the order.

7.

Proposed respondent has read the draft complaint and consent order.  It understands that
it may be liable for civil penalties in the amount provided by law and other appropriate relief for each
violation of the order after it becomes final.

ORDER

DEFINITIONS

For purposes of this order, the following definitions shall apply:

1.
“Personally identifiable information” or “personal information” shall mean individually identifiable
information from or about an individual including, but not limited to:  (a) a first and last name; (b) a home
or other physical address, including street name and name of city or town; (c) an email address or other
online contact information, such as an instant messaging user identifier or a screen name that reveals an

Page 2 of 8

individual’s email address; (d) a telephone number; (e) a Social Security Number; (f) a persistent identifier,
such as a customer number held in a “cookie” or processor serial number, that is combined with other
available data that identifies an individual; or (g) any information that is combined with any of (a) through
(f) above.

“Covered online service” shall mean Passport, Kids Passport, Passport Wallet, any substantially

2.
similar product or service, or any multisite online authentication service.

3. 
Unless otherwise specified, “respondent” shall mean Microsoft Corporation, its successors and
assigns and its officers, agents, representatives, and employees acting within the scope of their authority on
behalf of, or in active concert or participation with Microsoft Corporation.

“Commerce” shall mean as defined in Section 4 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, 15 U.S.C.

4.  
§  44.

I.

IT IS ORDERED that respondent, directly or through any corporation, subsidiary, division, or
other  device,  in  connection  with  the  advertising,  marketing,  promotion,  offering  for  sale,  or  sale  of  a
covered online service, in or affecting commerce, shall not misrepresent in any manner, expressly or by
implication, its information practices, including:

A.

B. 

C.

D.

E.

what personal information is collected from or about consumers;

the extent to which respondent’s product or service will maintain, protect or enhance the
privacy, confidentiality, or security of any personally identifiable information collected from
or about consumers; 

the steps respondent will take with respect to personal information it has collected in the
event that it changes the terms of the privacy policy in effect at the time the information was
collected;

the extent to which the service allows parents to control what information their children can
provide to participating sites or the use of that information by such sites; and

any  other  matter  regarding  the  collection,  use,  or  disclosure  of  personally  identifiable
information.

Page 3 of 8

II.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent, and its successors and assigns, in connection with
the advertising, marketing, promotion, offering for sale, or sale of a covered online service, in or affecting
commerce, shall establish and maintain a comprehensive information security program in writing that is
reasonably designed to protect the security, confidentiality, and integrity of personal information collected
from or about consumers.  Such program shall contain administrative, technical, and physical safeguards
appropriate to respondent’s size and complexity, the nature and scope of respondent’s activities, and the
sensitivity of the personal information collected from or about consumers, including:

A.

B.

C.

D.

The designation of an employee or employees to coordinate and be accountable for the
information security program.

The identification of material internal and external risks to the security, confidentiality, and
integrity of customer information that could result in the unauthorized disclosure, misuse,
alteration, destruction, or other compromise of such information, and assessment of the
sufficiency of any safeguards in place to control these risks.  At a minimum, this risk
assessment  should  include  consideration  of  risks  in  each  area  of  relevant  operation,
including:  (1)  employee  training  and  management;  (2)  information  systems,  including
network and software design, information processing, storage, transmission and disposal;
and (3) prevention, detection, and response to attacks, intrusions, or other systems failures.

Design and implementation of reasonable safeguards to control the risks identified through
risk assessment, and regular testing or monitoring of the effectiveness of the safeguards’
key controls, systems, and procedures. 

Evaluation and adjustment of respondent’s information security program in light of the
results of the testing and monitoring required by paragraph C, any material changes to
respondent’s  operations  or  business  arrangements,  or  any  other  circumstances  that
respondent knows or has reason to know may have a material impact on its information
security program.  

III.

Page 4 of 8

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent obtain within one (1) year, and on a biannual basis
thereafter, an assessment and report from a qualified, objective, independent third-party professional, using
procedures and standards generally accepted in the profession, that certifies:

A.

B. 

that respondent has in place a security program that provides protections that meet or
exceed the protections required by Part II of this order; and

that respondent’s security program is operating with sufficient effectiveness to provide
reasonable assurance that the security, confidentiality, and integrity of consumer’s personal
information has been protected.

The  report  required  by  this  paragraph  shall  be  prepared  by  a  Certified  Information  System  Security
Professional (CISSP) or by a person or organization approved by the Associate Director for Enforcement,
Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission.

IV.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent, and its successors and assigns, shall for a period
of five (5) years after the date of service of this order maintain and upon request make available to the
Federal Trade Commission for inspection and copying a print or electronic copy of the following documents
relating to compliance with this order:

A.

a  sample  copy  of  each  different  print,  broadcast,  cable,  or  Internet  advertisement,
promotion,  information  collection  form,  Web  page,  screen,  email  message,  or  other
document containing any representation to consumers regarding respondent’s collection,
use, and security of personal information from or about consumers.  Each Web page copy
shall be dated and contain the full URL of the Web page where the material was posted
online.  Electronic copies shall include all text and graphics files, audio scripts, and other
computer files used in presenting the information on the Web.  Provided, however, that
after creation of any Web page or screen in compliance with this order, respondent shall
not be required to retain a print or electronic copy of any amended Web page or screen
to the extent that the amendment does not affect respondent’s compliance obligations
under this order;

B.

all  plans,  reports,  studies,  reviews,  audits,  audit  trails,  policies,  and  training  materials,
whether prepared by or on behalf of respondent, relating to respondent’s compliance with
this order; and

Page 5 of 8

C.

any documents, whether prepared by or on behalf of respondent, that contradict, qualify,
or call into question respondent’s compliance with this order.

V.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent, and its successors and assigns, shall deliver a copy
of this order to all current and future principals, officers, directors, and managers, and to all current and
future employees, agents, and representatives having managerial responsibilities relating to the subject
matter of this order.  Respondent shall deliver this order to such current personnel within thirty (30) days
after the date of service of this order, and to such future personnel within thirty (30) days after the person
assumes such position or responsibilities.

VI.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent Microsoft Corporation, and its successors and
assigns, shall notify the Commission at least thirty (30) days prior to any change in the corporation that may
affect compliance obligations arising under this order, including, but not limited to, a dissolution, assignment,
sale, merger, or other action that would result in the emergence of a successor corporation; the creation
or dissolution of a subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts or practices subject to this order;
the proposed filing of a bankruptcy petition; or a change in the corporate name or address.  Provided,
however, that, with respect to any proposed change in the corporation about which respondent learns less
than thirty (30) days prior to the date such action is to take place, respondent shall notify the Commission
as soon as is practicable after obtaining such knowledge.  All notices required by this Part shall be sent by
certified mail to the Associate Director, Division of Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal
Trade Commission, Washington, D.C. 20580.

VII.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent Microsoft Corporation, and its successors and
assigns, shall within sixty (60) days after service of this order, and at such other times as the Federal Trade
Commission may require, file with the Commission a report, in writing, setting forth in detail the manner and
form in which they have complied with this order.

Page 6 of 8

 
VIII.

This order will terminate twenty (20) years from the date of its issuance, or twenty (20) years from
the most recent date that the United States or the Federal Trade Commission files a complaint (with or
without an accompanying consent decree) in federal court alleging any violation of the order, whichever
comes later; provided, however, that the filing of such a complaint will not affect the duration of:

A.

B.

Any Part in this order that terminates in less than twenty (20) years;

This  order's  application  to  any  respondent  that  is  not  named  as  a  defendant  in  such
complaint; and

C.

This order if such complaint is filed after the order has terminated pursuant to this Part.

Provided, further, that if such complaint is dismissed or a federal court rules that the respondent did not
violate any provision of the order, and the dismissal or ruling is either not appealed or upheld on appeal,
then the order will terminate according to this Part as though the complaint had never been filed, except that
the order will not terminate between the date such complaint is filed and the later of the deadline for
appealing such dismissal or ruling and the date such dismissal or ruling is upheld on appeal.

Signed this                        day of                                                                                          , 2002.

MICROSOFT CORPORATION

By:

BRADFORD SMITH
Senior Vice President

CHARLES E. BUFFON
Covington & Burling
Counsel for Respondent Microsoft Corporation

FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION

Page 7 of 8

                                                                              
                                                                              
ELLEN R. FINN
Counsel for the Federal Trade Commission

APPROVED:

JESSICA RICH
Assistant Director
Division of Financial Practices

J. HOWARD BEALES, III
Director
Bureau of Consumer Protection

Page 8 of 8

                                                                              
                                                                  
                                                                  
