                                                                                    022 3260

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BEFORE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION

COMMISSIONERS:

Timothy J. Muris, Chairman
Sheila F. Anthony
Mozelle W. Thompson
Orson Swindle
Thomas B. Leary

______________________________

In the Matter of

GUESS?, INC.,
a corporation,

and

)
)
)
)

)

)
)
)
)

GUESS.COM, INC.,
a corporation.
______________________________)

)

DOCKET NO. C-4091 

DECISION AND ORDER

The  Federal  Trade  Commission  having  initiated  an  investigation  of  certain  acts  and  practices  of  the
Respondents named in the caption hereof, and the Respondents having been furnished thereafter with a
copy of a draft complaint that the Bureau of Consumer Protection proposed to present to the Commission
for its consideration and which, if issued by the Commission, would charge the Respondents with violation
of the Federal Trade Commission Act, 15 U.S.C. § 45 et seq; and

The Respondents, their attorney, and counsel for the Commission having thereafter executed an agreement
containing a consent order, an admission by the Respondents of all the jurisdictional facts set forth in the
aforesaid draft complaint, a statement that the signing of said agreement is for settlement purposes only and
does  not  constitute  an  admission  by  Respondents  that  the  law  has  been  violated  as  alleged  in  such
complaint, or that the facts as alleged in such complaint, other than jurisdictional facts, are true, and waivers
and other provisions as required by the Commission's Rules.

The Commission having thereafter considered the matter and having determined that it has reason to believe
that the Respondents have violated the said Act, and that a complaint should issue stating its charges in that
respect, and having thereupon accepted the executed consent agreement and placed such agreement on
the public record for a period of thirty (30) days, now in further conformity with the procedure described

1

in § 2.34 of its Rules, the Commission hereby issues its complaint, makes the following jurisdictional findings
and enters the following order:

1.

Respondent Guess?, Inc. is a Delaware corporation with its principal office or place of
business at 1444 S. Alameda Street, Los Angeles, California 90021.  Respondent Guess.com, inc. is a
Delaware corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Respondent Guess?, Inc.  Its principal office or
place of business is at 1444 S. Alameda Street, Los Angeles, California 90021.

2.

The Federal Trade Commission has jurisdiction of the subject matter of this proceeding and

of the Respondents, and the proceeding is in the public interest.

ORDER

DEFINITIONS

For purposes of this order, the following definitions shall apply:

“Personal information” shall mean individually identifiable information from or about an individual
1.
consumer including, but not limited to: (a) a first and last name; (b) a home or other physical address,
including street name and name of city or town; (c) an email address or other online contact information,
such as an instant messaging user identifier or a screen name that reveals an individual’s email address; (d)
a telephone number; (e) a social security number; (f) credit and/or debit card information, including credit
and/or debit card number and expiration date; (g) a persistent identifier, such as a customer number held
in a “cookie” or processor serial number, that is combined with other available data that identifies an
individual consumer; or (h) any other information from or about an individual consumer that is combined
with (a) through (g) above. 

Unless otherwise specified, “Respondents” shall mean Guess?, Inc. and its successors and assigns,
2.
officers, agents, representatives, and employees, Guess.com, inc. and its successors and assigns, officers,
agents, representatives, and employees, and both of them and their successors and assigns, officers, agents,
representatives, and employees.

“Commerce” shall mean as defined in Section 4 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, 15 U.S.C.

3.  
§  44.

IT IS ORDERED that Respondents, directly or through any corporation, subsidiary, division, or
other device, in connection with the online advertising, marketing, promotion, offering for sale, or sale of

I.

2

any product or service, in or affecting commerce, shall not misrepresent in any manner, expressly or by
implication, the extent to which Respondents maintain and protect the security, confidentiality, or integrity
of any personal information collected from or about consumers.

II.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondents, directly or through any corporation, subsidiary,
division, or other device, in connection with the online advertising, marketing, promotion, offering for sale,
or sale of any product or service, in or affecting commerce, shall establish and maintain a comprehensive
information security program in writing that is reasonably designed to protect the security, confidentiality,
and integrity of personal information collected from or about consumers.  Such program shall contain
administrative, technical, and physical safeguards appropriate to Respondents’ size and complexity, the
nature and scope of Respondents’ activities, and the sensitivity of the personal information collected from
or about consumers, including:

A.

B. 

C. 

D. 

the  designation  of  an  employee  or  employees  to  coordinate  and  be
accountable for the information security program.

the  identification  of  material  internal  and  external  risks  to  the security,
confidentiality,  and  integrity  of  personal  information  that  could  result  in  the
unauthorized disclosure, misuse, loss, alteration, destruction, or other compromise
of such information, and assessment of the sufficiency of any safeguards in place
to  control  these  risks.    At  a  minimum,  this  risk  assessment  should  include
consideration of risks in each area of relevant operation, including, but not limited
to:  (1)  employee  training  and  management;  (2)  information  systems,  including
network and software design, information processing, storage, transmission, and
disposal; and (3) prevention, detection, and response to attacks, intrusions, or
other systems failures.

the  design  and  implementation  of  reasonable  safeguards  to  control  the  risks
identified  through  risk  assessment,  and  regular  testing  or  monitoring  of  the
effectiveness of the safeguards’ key controls, systems, and procedures.

the evaluation and adjustment of Respondents’ information security program in
light of the results of the testing and monitoring required by subparagraph C, any
material changes to Respondents’ operations or business arrangements, or any
other circumstances that Respondents know or have reason to know may have a
material impact on the effectiveness of their information security program. 

3

III. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondents obtain an assessment and report from a qualified,
objective, independent third-party professional, using procedures and standards generally accepted in the
profession, within one (1) year after service of the order, and biannually thereafter, that:

A.  

B.  

C.

D. 

sets  forth  the  specific  administrative,  technical,  and  physical  safeguards  that
Respondents have implemented and maintained during the reporting period;

explains  how  such  safeguards  are  appropriate  to  Respondents’ size and
complexity, the nature and scope of Respondents’ activities, and the sensitivity of
the personal information collected from or about consumers; 

explains  how  the  safeguards  that  have  been  implemented  meet  or  exceed  the
protections required by Paragraph II of this order; and

certifies  that  Respondents’  security  program  is  operating  with sufficient
effectiveness to provide reasonable assurance that the security, confidentiality, and
integrity of personal information is protected and, for biannual reports, has so
operated throughout the reporting period.

Each assessment and report required by this Paragraph shall be prepared by a person qualified as a
Certified Information System Security Professional (CISSP) or holding Global Information Assurance
Certification from the SysAdmin, Audit, Network, Security Institute; or by a similarly qualified person or
organization approved by the Associate Director for Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal
Trade Commission.  Respondents shall provide the first assessment and report to the Associate Director
for Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, Washington, D.C. 20580,
within ten (10) days after it is prepared.  All subsequent biannual reports shall be retained in accordance
with Paragraph IV. B. of this order and provided to the Associate Director of Enforcement upon request.

IV.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondents shall maintain, and upon request make available
to the Federal Trade Commission for inspection and copying, a print or electronic copy of each document
relating to compliance, including but not limited to:

A.

for a period of five (5) years:

1.

a sample copy of each different print, broadcast, cable, or Internet advertisement,
promotion, information collection form, Web page, screen, email message, or

4

other  document  containing  any  representation  regarding  Respondents’  online
collection, use, and security of personal information from or about consumers.
Each Web page copy shall be dated and contain the full URL of the Web page
where the material was posted online.  Electronic copies shall include all text and
graphics  files,  audio  scripts,  and  other  computer  files  used  in  presenting  the
information on the Web. Provided, however, that after creation of any Web page
or screen in compliance with this order, Respondents shall not be required to
retain a print or electronic copy of any amended Web page or screen to the extent
that the amendment does not affect Respondents’ compliance obligations under
this order, and

2.

any documents, whether prepared by or on behalf of Respondents, that contradict,
qualify, or call into question Respondents’ compliance with this order; and

B.

for a period of three (3) years after the date of preparation of each previous assessment
and report required under Paragraph III of this order, and for the initial assessment and
report, from the date the order is entered until two years following preparation of the
assessment  and  report:  all  reports,  studies,  reviews,  audits,  audit  trails,  security
assessments, risk assessments, policies, training materials, logs (from devices that detect
or prevent attacks such as firewalls and intrusion detection systems), and plans (including
the assessments and reports required under Paragraph III), whether prepared by or on
behalf of Respondents, relating to Respondents’ compliance with Paragraphs II and III of
this order. 

V.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondents shall deliver a copy of this order to all current and
future principals, officers, directors, and managers, and to all current and future employees, agents, and
representatives having managerial responsibilities relating to the subject matter of this order.  Respondents
shall deliver this order to such current personnel within thirty (30) days after service of this order, and to
such future personnel within thirty (30) days after the person assumes such position or responsibilities.

VI.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondents shall notify the Commission at least thirty (30) days
prior to any change in either corporation that may affect compliance obligations arising under this order,
including, but not limited to, a dissolution, assignment, sale, merger, or other action that would result in the
emergence of a successor corporation; the creation or dissolution of a subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that
engages in any acts or practices subject to this order; the proposed filing of a bankruptcy petition; or a
change in either corporate name or address.  Provided, however, that, with respect to any proposed
change in either corporation about which either Respondent learns less than thirty (30) days prior to the

5

date such action is to take place, Respondents shall notify the Commission as soon as is practicable after
obtaining such knowledge.  All notices required by this Paragraph shall be sent by certified mail to the
Associate Director, Division of Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission,
Washington, D.C. 20580.

VII.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondents shall, within one hundred and twenty (120) days
after service of this order, and at such other times as the Commission may require, file with the Commission
an initial report, in writing, setting forth in detail the manner and form in which they have complied with this
order.   

VIII.

This order will terminate on July 30, 2023, or twenty (20) years from the most recent date that the
United States or the Federal Trade Commission files a complaint (with or without an accompanying consent
decree) in federal court alleging any violation of the order, whichever comes later; provided, however, that
the filing of such a complaint will not affect the duration of:

A.

B.

C.

any Paragraph in this order that terminates in less than twenty (20) years;  

this order’s application to any Respondent that is not named as a defendant in such
complaint; and 

this order if such complaint is filed after the order has terminated pursuant to this
Paragraph.

Provided, further, that if such complaint is dismissed or a federal court rules that the Respondents did not
violate any provision of the order, and the dismissal or ruling is either not appealed or upheld on appeal,
then the order will terminate according to this Paragraph as though the complaint had never been filed,
except that the order will not terminate between the date such complaint is filed and the later of the deadline
for appealing such dismissal or ruling and the date such dismissal or ruling is upheld on appeal.

By the Commission.

SEAL:
ISSUED:  July 30, 2003

Donald S. Clark
Secretary

6

