UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BEFORE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION

032-3209

COMMISSIONERS:

Timothy J. Muris, Chairman
Mozelle W. Thompson
Orson Swindle
Thomas B. Leary
Pamela Jones Harbour

In the Matter of

MTS, INC., d/b/a TOWER
RECORDS/BOOKS/VIDEO,
a corporation,

)
)
)
)
)
) 
)
)
)
)
TOWER DIRECT, LLC, d/b/a
)
TOWERRECORDS.COM,
)
a corporation.
                                                            )

and

DECISION AND ORDER

Docket No. C-4110

The Federal Trade Commission having initiated an investigation of certain acts and
practices of the Respondents named in the caption hereof, and the Respondents having been
furnished thereafter with a copy of a draft Complaint that the Bureau of Consumer Protection
proposed to present to the Commission for its consideration and which, if issued by the
Commission, would charge the Respondents with violation of the Federal Trade Commission
Act, 15 U.S.C. § 45 et seq;

The Respondents, their attorney, and counsel for the Commission having thereafter
executed an Agreement Containing Consent Order (“Consent Agreement”), an admission by the
Respondents of all the jurisdictional facts set forth in the aforesaid draft Complaint, a statement
that the signing of said Consent Agreement is for settlement purposes only and does not
constitute an admission by Respondents that the law has been violated as alleged in such
Complaint, or that the facts as alleged in such Complaint, other than jurisdictional facts, are true,
and waivers and other provisions as required by the Commission's Rules; and

The Commission having thereafter considered the matter and having determined that it

has reason to believe that the Respondents have violated the said Act, and that a Complaint
should issue stating its charges in that respect, and having thereupon accepted the executed
Consent Agreement and placed such Consent Agreement on the public record for a period of

1

                                                                                                            
                                                            
thirty (30) days, now in further conformity with the procedure described in Section 2.34 of its
Rules, the Commission hereby issues its Complaint, makes the following jurisdictional findings
and enters the following Order:

1.

Respondent MTS, Inc., d/b/a Tower Records/Books/Video, is a California

corporation with its principal office or place of business at 2500 Del Monte, West Sacramento,
California 95691. 

2.

Respondent Tower Direct, LLC, d/b/a TowerRecords.com, is a Delaware limited

liability company and a subsidiary of Respondent MTS, Inc.  Its principal office or place of
business is also at 2500 Del Monte, West Sacramento, California 95691.  

3.

The Federal Trade Commission has jurisdiction of the subject matter of this

proceeding and of the Respondents, and the proceeding is in the public interest.

ORDER

DEFINITIONS

For purposes of this order, the following definitions shall apply:  

1.

“Personal information” shall mean individually identifiable information from or
about an individual consumer including, but not limited to:  (a) a first and last name; (b) a home
or other physical address, including street name and name of city or town; (c) an email address
or other online contact information, such as an instant messaging user identifier or a screen name
that reveals an individual’s email address; (d) a telephone number; (e) a Social Security number;
(f) a persistent identifier, such as a customer number held in a “cookie” or processor serial
number, that is combined with other available data that identifies an individual consumer; or (g)
any other information from or about an individual consumer that is combined with (a) through (f)
above.  

2.

Unless otherwise specified, “Respondents” shall mean MTS, Inc., and its

successors and assigns (including the reorganized debtor or any entity in which property of the
bankruptcy estate vests pursuant to any confirmed plan) officers, agents, representatives, and
employees; Tower Direct, LLC, and its successors and assigns (including the reorganized debtor
or any entity in which property of the bankruptcy estate vests pursuant to any confirmed plan),
officers, agents, representatives, and employees; and both of them and their successors and
assigns, officers, agents, representatives, and employees.  

3.

“Commerce” shall mean as defined in Section 4 of the Federal Trade Commission

Act, 15 U.S.C. § 44.

2

I.

IT IS ORDERED that Respondents, directly or through any corporation, subsidiary,

division, or other device, in connection with the online advertising, marketing, promotion,
offering for sale, or sale of any product or service, in or affecting commerce, shall not
misrepresent in any manner, expressly or by implication, the extent to which Respondents
maintain and protect the privacy, confidentiality, or security of any personal information
collected from or about consumers. 

II.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondents, directly or through any corporation,

subsidiary, division, or other device, in connection with the online advertising, marketing,
promotion, offering for sale, or sale of any product or service, in or affecting commerce, shall, no
later than the date of service of this order, establish and implement, and thereafter maintain, a
comprehensive information security program that is reasonably designed to protect the security,
confidentiality, and integrity of personal information collected from or about consumers.  Such
program, the content and implementation of which must be fully documented in writing, shall
contain administrative, technical, and physical safeguards appropriate to Respondents’ size and
complexity, the nature and scope of Respondents’ activities, and the sensitivity of the personal
information collected from or about consumers, including:  

A.

the designation of an employee or employees to coordinate and be

accountable for the information security program.  

B.

the identification of material internal and external risks to the security,

confidentiality, and integrity of personal information that could result in the unauthorized
disclosure, misuse, loss, alteration, destruction, or other compromise of such information, and
assessment of the sufficiency of any safeguards in place to control these risks.  At a minimum,
this risk assessment should include consideration of risks in each area of relevant operation,
including, but not limited to:  (1) employee training and management; (2) information systems,
including network and software design, information processing, storage, transmission, and
disposal; and (3) prevention, detection, and response to attacks, intrusions, or other systems
failures.  

C.

the design and implementation of reasonable safeguards to control the

risks identified through risk assessment, and regular testing or monitoring of the effectiveness of
the safeguards’ key controls, systems, and procedures.

3

D.

the evaluation and adjustment of Respondents’ information security

program in light of the results of the testing and monitoring required by subparagraph C, any
material changes to Respondents’ operations or business arrangements, or any other
circumstances that Respondents know or have reason to know may have a material impact on the
effectiveness of their information security program.  

III.  

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondents obtain an assessment and report (an

“Assessment”) from a qualified, objective, independent third-party professional, using
procedures and standards generally accepted in the profession, within one hundred and eighty
(180) days after service of the order, and biannually thereafter for ten (10) years after service of
the order that:  

A.

sets forth the specific administrative, technical, and physical safeguards

that Respondents have implemented and maintained during the reporting period;

B.

explains how such safeguards are appropriate to Respondents’ size and
complexity, the nature and scope of Respondents’ activities, and the sensitivity of the personal
information collected from or about consumers; 

C.

explains how the safeguards that have been implemented meet or exceed

the protections required by Paragraph II of this order; and

D.

certifies that Respondents’ security program is operating with sufficient
effectiveness to provide reasonable assurance that the security, confidentiality, and integrity of
personal information is protected and, for biannual reports, has so operated throughout the
reporting period.

Each Assessment shall be prepared by a person qualified as a Certified Information System
Security Professional (CISSP) or holding Global Information Assurance Certification from the
SysAdmin, Audit, Network, Security Institute, or by a similarly qualified person or organization
approved by the Associate Director for Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal
Trade Commission.

Respondents shall provide the first Assessment, as well as all:  plans, reports, studies, reviews,
audits, audit trails, policies, training materials, and assessments, whether prepared by or on
behalf of Respondents, relied upon to prepare such Assessment to the Associate Director for
Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, Washington, D.C.
20580, within ten (10) days after the Assessment has been prepared.  All subsequent biannual
Assessments shall be retained by the Respondents until the order is terminated and provided to
the Associate Director of Enforcement within ten (10) days of request.  

IV.

4

  
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondents shall maintain, and upon request make

available to the Federal Trade Commission for inspection and copying, a print or electronic copy
of each document relating to compliance, including but not limited to:

A.

for a period of five (5) years:

1.

a sample copy of each different print, broadcast, cable, or Internet

advertisement, promotion, information collection form, Web page, screen, email message, or
other document containing any representation regarding Respondents’ online collection, use, and
security of personal information from or about consumers.  Each Web page copy shall be dated
and contain the full URL of the Web page where the material was posted online.  Electronic
copies shall include all text and graphics files, audio scripts, and other computer files used in
presenting the information on the Web.  Provided, however, that after creation of any Web page
or screen in compliance with this order, Respondents shall not be required to retain a print or
electronic copy of:  (1) any amended Web page or screen to the extent that the amendment does
not affect Respondents’ compliance obligations under this order; or (2) any Web page or screen
that contains a hypertext link to Respondents’ privacy policy, but otherwise does not relate to
Respondents’ compliance obligations under this order.    

2.

any documents, whether prepared by or on behalf of Respondents, that

contradict, qualify, or call into question Respondents’ compliance with this order; and

B.

for a period of three (3) years after the date of preparation of each biannual
Assessment required under Paragraph III of this order:  all plans, reports, studies, reviews,
audits, audit trails, policies, training materials, and assessments, whether prepared by or on
behalf of Respondents, relating to Respondents’ compliance with Paragraphs II and III of this
order for the compliance period covered by such biannual Assessment. 

V.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondents shall deliver a copy of this order to all

current and future principals, officers, directors, and managers, and to all current and future
employees, agents, and representatives having managerial responsibilities relating to the subject
matter of this order.  Respondents shall deliver this order to such current personnel within thirty
(30) days after service of this order, and to such future personnel within thirty (30) days after the
person assumes such position or responsibilities.

5

VI.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondents shall notify the Commission at least

thirty (30) days prior to any change in either corporation that may affect compliance obligations
arising under this order, including, but not limited to, a dissolution, assignment, sale, merger, or
other action that would result in the emergence of a successor corporation; the creation or
dissolution of a subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts or practices subject to this
order; the proposed filing of a bankruptcy petition following the dismissal or closing of the
current bankruptcy cases; or a change in either corporate name or address.  Provided, however,
that, with respect to any proposed change in either corporation about which either Respondent
learns less than thirty (30) days prior to the date such action is to take place, Respondents shall
notify the Commission as soon as is practicable after obtaining such knowledge.  All notices
required by this Paragraph shall be sent by certified mail to the Associate Director, Division of
Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, Washington, D.C.
20580.  

VII.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondents shall, within one hundred and eighty

(180) days after service of this order, and at such other times as the Commission may require,
file with the Commission an initial report, in writing, setting forth in detail the manner and form
in which they have complied with this order.  

VIII.  

This order will terminate on May 28, 2024, or twenty (20) years from the most recent

date that the United States or the Federal Trade Commission files a complaint (with or without
an accompanying consent decree) in federal court alleging any violation of the order, whichever
comes later; provided, however, that the filing of such a complaint will not affect the duration of:

A.

any Paragraph in this Order that terminates in less than twenty (20) years;

B.
defendant in such complaint; and

this Order’s application to any Respondent that is not named as a

C.

this Order if such complaint is filed after the Order has terminated

pursuant to this Paragraph.  

Provided, further, that if such complaint is dismissed or a federal court rules that the
Respondents did not violate any provision of the Order, and the dismissal or ruling is either not
appealed or upheld on appeal, then the Order will terminate according to this Paragraph as

6

though the complaint had never been filed, except that the Order will not terminate between the
date such complaint is filed and the later of the deadline for appealing such dismissal or ruling
and the date such dismissal or ruling is upheld on appeal.  

By the Commission.

SEAL:
ISSUED: May 28, 2004

Donald S. Clark
Secretary

7

