0323221

COMMISSIONERS:

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BEFORE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION

Deborah Platt Majoras, Chairman
Orson Swindle
Thomas B. Leary
Pamela Jones Harbour
Jon Leibowitz

In the Matter of

     )
     )
     )
PETCO ANIMAL SUPPLIES, INC.,  )
a corporation.
     )
                                                                 )

DOCKET NO. C-4133

DECISION AND ORDER

The Federal Trade Commission having initiated an investigation of certain acts and
practices of the Respondent named in the caption hereof, and the Respondent having been
furnished thereafter with a copy of a draft Complaint that the Bureau of Consumer Protection
proposed to present to the Commission for its consideration and which, if issued by the
Commission, would charge the Respondent with violation of the Federal Trade Commission Act,
15 U.S.C. § 45 et seq;

The Respondent, its attorney, and counsel for the Commission having thereafter executed

an Agreement Containing Consent Order (“Consent Agreement”), an admission by the
Respondent of all the jurisdictional facts set forth in the aforesaid draft Complaint, a statement
that the signing of said Consent Agreement is for settlement purposes only and does not
constitute an admission by Respondent that the law has been violated as alleged in such
Complaint, or that the facts as alleged in such Complaint, other than jurisdictional facts, are true,
and waivers and other provisions as required by the Commission's Rules; and

The Commission having thereafter considered the matter and having determined that it

has reason to believe that the Respondent has violated the said Act, and that a Complaint should
issue stating its charges in that respect, and having thereupon accepted the executed Consent
Agreement and placed such Consent Agreement on the public record for a period of thirty (30)
days, and having duly considered the comments filed thereafter by interested persons pursuant to
Section 2.34 of its Rules, now in further conformity with the procedure described in Section 2.34
of its Rules, the Commission hereby issues its Complaint, makes the following jurisdictional
findings and enters the following Order:

                                                                 
1.

Respondent Petco Animal Supplies, Inc. is a Delaware corporation with its

principal office or place of business at 9125 Rehco Road, San Diego, California 92121. 

2.

The Federal Trade Commission has jurisdiction of the subject matter of this

proceeding and of the Respondent, and the proceeding is in the public interest.

ORDER

DEFINITIONS

For purposes of this order, the following definitions shall apply:  

1.

“Personal information” shall mean individually identifiable information from or
about an individual consumer including, but not limited to:  (a) a first and last name; (b) a home
or other physical address, including street name and name of city or town; (c) an email address
or other online contact information, such as an instant messaging user identifier or a screen name
that reveals an individual’s email address; (d) a telephone number; (e) a Social Security number;
(f) credit and/or debit card information, including credit and/or debit card number and expiration
date; (g) a persistent identifier, such as a customer number held in a “cookie” or processor serial
number, that is combined with other available data that identifies an individual consumer; or (h)
any other information from or about an individual consumer that is combined with (a) through
(g) above.  

2.

Unless otherwise specified, “respondent” shall mean Petco Animal Supplies, Inc.

and its successors and assigns, officers, agents, representatives, and employees. 

3.

“Commerce” shall mean as defined in Section 4 of the Federal Trade Commission

Act, 15 U.S.C. § 44.   

I.

IT IS ORDERED that respondent, directly or through any corporation, subsidiary,
division, or other device, in connection with the online advertising, marketing, promotion,
offering for sale, or sale of any product or service, in or affecting commerce, shall not
misrepresent in any manner, expressly or by implication, the extent to which respondent
maintains and protects the privacy, confidentiality, security, or integrity of any personal
information collected from or about consumers. 

II.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent, directly or through any corporation,
subsidiary, division, or other device, in connection with the online advertising, marketing,
promotion, offering for sale, or sale of any product or service, in or affecting commerce, shall, no
later than the date of service of this order, establish and implement, and thereafter maintain, a
comprehensive information security program that is reasonably designed to protect the security,

confidentiality, and integrity of personal information collected from or about consumers.  Such
program, the content and implementation of which must be fully documented in writing, shall
contain administrative, technical, and physical safeguards appropriate to respondent’s size and
complexity, the nature and scope of respondent’s activities, and the sensitivity of the personal
information collected from or about consumers, including:  

the designation of an employee or employees to coordinate and be

A.
accountable for the information security program.  

the identification of material internal and external risks to the security,

B.
confidentiality, and integrity of personal information that could result in the
unauthorized disclosure, misuse, loss, alteration, destruction, or other compromise
of such information, and assessment of the sufficiency of any safeguards in place
to control these risks.  At a minimum, this risk assessment should include
consideration of risks in each area of relevant operation, including, but not limited
to: (1) employee training and management; (2) information systems, including
network and software design, information processing, storage, transmission, and
disposal; and (3) prevention, detection, and response to attacks, intrusions, or
other systems failures.  
C.
risks identified through risk assessment, and regular testing or monitoring of the
effectiveness of the safeguards’ key controls, systems, and procedures.  

the design and implementation of reasonable safeguards to control the

the evaluation and adjustment of respondent’s information security 

D.
program in light of the results of the testing and monitoring required by
subparagraph C, any material changes to respondent’s operations or business
arrangements, or any other circumstances that respondent knows or has reason to
know may have a material impact on the effectiveness of its information security
program.  

III.  

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent obtain an assessment and report (an

“Assessment”) from a qualified, objective, independent third-party professional, using
procedures and standards generally accepted in the profession, within one hundred and eighty
(180) days after service of the order, and biennially thereafter for twenty (20) years after service
of the order that:  

sets forth the specific administrative, technical, and physical safeguards

A.
that respondent has implemented and maintained during the reporting period;

explains how such safeguards are appropriate to respondent’s size and

B.
complexity, the nature and scope of respondent’s activities, and the sensitivity of
the personal information collected from or about consumers; 

C.

explains how the safeguards that have been implemented meet or exceed

the protections required by Paragraph II of this order; and

D.
certifies that respondent’s security program is operating with sufficient
effectiveness to provide reasonable assurance that the security, confidentiality,
and integrity of personal information is protected and, for biennial reports, has so
operated throughout the reporting period.

Each Assessment shall be prepared by a person qualified as a Certified Information System
Security Professional (CISSP) or as a Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA); a person
holding Global Information Assurance Certification (GIAC) from the SysAdmin, Audit,
Network, Security (SANS) Institute; or a qualified person or organization approved by the
Associate Director for Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade
Commission.  

Respondent shall provide the first Assessment, as well as all: plans, reports, studies, reviews,
audits, audit trails, policies, training materials, and assessments, whether prepared by or on
behalf of respondent, relied upon to prepare such Assessment to the Associate Director for
Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, Washington, D.C.
20580, within ten (10) days after the Assessment has been prepared.  All subsequent biennial
Assessments shall be retained by respondent until the order is terminated and provided to the
Associate Director of Enforcement within ten (10) days of request.  

IV.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent shall maintain, and upon request make

available to the Federal Trade Commission for inspection and copying, a print or electronic copy
of each document relating to compliance, including but not limited to:  

A.

for a period of five (5) years:

1.
a sample copy of each different print, broadcast, cable, or Internet
advertisement, promotion, information collection form, Web page, screen, email
message, or other document containing any representation regarding respondent’s
online collection, use, and security of personal information from or about
consumers.  Each Web page copy shall be dated and contain the full URL of the
Web page where the material was posted online.  Electronic copies shall include
all text and graphics files, audio scripts, and other computer files used in
presenting the information on the Web.  Provided, however, that after creation of
any Web page or screen in compliance with this order, respondent shall not be
required to retain a print or electronic copy of: (1) any amended Web page or
screen to the extent that the amendment does not affect respondent’s compliance
obligations under this order; or (2) any Web page or screen that contains a
hypertext link to respondent’s privacy policy, but otherwise does not relate to
respondent’s compliance obligations under this order.    

2.

any documents, whether prepared by or on behalf of respondent, that

contradict, qualify, or call into question respondent’s compliance with this order;
and

for a period of three (3) years after the date of preparation of each biennial

B.
Assessment required under Paragraph III of this order: all plans, reports, studies,
reviews, audits, audit trails, policies, training materials, and assessments, whether
prepared by or on behalf of respondent, relating to respondent’s compliance with
Paragraphs II and III of this order for the compliance period covered by such
biennial Assessment. 

V.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent shall deliver a copy of this order to all
current and future principals, officers, directors, and managers, and to all current and future
employees, agents, and representatives having managerial responsibilities relating to the subject
matter of this order.  Respondent shall deliver this order to such current personnel within thirty
(30) days after service of this order, and to such future personnel within thirty (30) days after the
person assumes such position or responsibilities.  

VI.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent shall notify the Commission at least thirty
(30) days prior to any change in the corporation that may affect compliance obligations arising
under this order, including, but not limited to, a dissolution, assignment, sale, merger, or other
action that would result in the emergence of a successor corporation; the creation or dissolution
of a subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts or practices subject to this order; the
proposed filing of a bankruptcy petition; or a change in either corporate name or address. 
Provided, however, that, with respect to any proposed change in the corporation about which
respondent learns less than thirty (30) days prior to the date such action is to take place,
respondent shall notify the Commission as soon as is practicable after obtaining such knowledge. 
All notices required by this Paragraph shall be sent by certified mail to the Associate Director,
Division of Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission,
Washington, D.C. 20580.  

VII.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent shall, within one hundred and eighty (180)
days after service of this order, and at such other times as the Commission may require, file with
the Commission an initial report, in writing, setting forth in detail the manner and form in which
it has complied with this order.  

VIII.  

This order will terminate on March 4, 2025, or twenty (20) years from the most recent
date that the United States or the Federal Trade Commission files a complaint (with or without
an accompanying consent decree) in federal court alleging any violation of the order, whichever
comes later; provided, however, that the filing of such a complaint will not affect the duration of:

A.

any Paragraph in this order that terminates in less than twenty (20) years;

this order’s application to any respondent that is not named as a defendant

B.
in such complaint; and

this order if such complaint is filed after the order has terminated pursuant

C.
to this Paragraph.  

Provided, further, that if such complaint is dismissed or a federal court rules that respondent did
not violate any provision of the order, and the dismissal or ruling is either not appealed or upheld
on appeal, then the order will terminate according to this Paragraph as though the complaint had
never been filed, except that the order will not terminate between the date such complaint is filed
and the later of the deadline for appealing such dismissal or ruling and the date such dismissal or
ruling is upheld on appeal.

By the Commission.

SEAL:
ISSUED:  March 4, 2005

Donald S. Clark
Secretary

  
