 052 3148 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

BEFORE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION


COMMISSIONERS: 

Deborah Platt Majoras, Chairman 
Pamela Jones Harbour 
Jon Leibowitz 
William E. Kovacic 
J. Thomas Rosch 

__________________________________

In the Matter of

 ) 
 ) 
 ) 
CARDSYSTEMS SOLUTIONS, INC.,  ) 
 )
a corporation, and
 ) 
SOLIDUS NETWORKS, INC. 
) 
D/B/A PAY BY TOUCH SOLUTIONS, ) 
a corporation.
 ) 
__________________________________) 

DOCKET NO.  C-4168

DECISION AND ORDER 

The Federal Trade Commission having initiated an investigation of certain acts and practices of 
the Respondent named in the caption hereof, and the Respondent and its successor corporation, 
Solidus Networks, Inc., doing business as Pay By Touch Solutions, having been furnished 
thereafter with a copy of a draft Complaint that the Bureau of Consumer Protection proposed to 
present to the Commission for its consideration and which, if issued by the Commission, would 
charge the Respondent with violation of the Federal Trade Commission Act, 15 U.S.C. § 45 et 
seq; 

The Respondent, its attorney, its successor corporation, its attorney, and counsel for the 
Commission having thereafter executed an Agreement Containing Consent Order (“Consent 
Agreement”), an admission by the Respondent and its successor corporation of all the 
jurisdictional facts set forth in the aforesaid draft Complaint, a statement that the signing of said 
Consent Agreement is for settlement purposes only and does not constitute an admission by 
Respondent or its successor corporation that the law has been violated as alleged in such 
Complaint, or that the facts as alleged in such Complaint, other than jurisdictional facts, are true, 
and waivers and other provisions as required by the Commission's Rules; and 

Page 1 of  6

              
The Commission having thereafter considered the matter and having determined that it has 
reason to believe that the Respondent has violated the said Act, and that a Complaint should 
issue stating its charges in that respect, and having thereupon accepted the executed Consent 
Agreement and placed such Consent Agreement on the public record for a period of thirty (30) 
days, and having duly considered the comments filed thereafter by interested persons pursuant to 
Section 2.34 of its Rules, now in further conformity with the procedure described in Section 2.34 
of its Rules, the Commission hereby issues its Complaint, makes the following jurisdictional 
findings and enters the following Order: 

1. 

Respondent CardSystems Solutions, Inc. is a Delaware corporation with its 

principal office or place of business at 6390 East Broadway, Tucson, Arizona 85710. 

Solidus Networks, Inc, doing business as Pay By Touch Solutions, is a Delaware 
corporation with its principal office or place of business at 101 2nd St Ste 1500, San Francisco, 
California 94105. 

2 

The Federal Trade Commission has jurisdiction of the subject matter of this 

proceeding and of the Respondent and Solidus Networks, Inc., and the proceeding is in the public 
interest. 

ORDER 

DEFINITIONS 

For purposes of this order, the following definitions shall apply:  

1. 

“Personal information” shall mean individually identifiable information from or 
about an individual consumer including, but not limited to: (a) a first and last name; (b) a home 
or other physical address, including street name and name of city or town; (c) an email address or 
other online contact information, such as an instant messaging user identifier or a screen name 
that reveals an individual’s email address; (d) a telephone number; (e) a Social Security number; 
(f) credit or debit card information, including card number, expiration date, and data stored on a 
card’s magnetic stripe; (g) a persistent identifier, such as a customer number held in a “cookie” 
or processor serial number, that is combined with other available data that identifies an 
individual consumer; or (h) any other information from or about an individual consumer that is 
combined with (a) through (g) above. 

2. 

Unless otherwise specified, “respondent” shall mean CardSystems Solutions, Inc. 
and its successors and assigns, including Solidus Networks, Inc., officers, agents, representatives, 
and employees. 

Page 2 of  6 

I. 

IT IS ORDERED that respondent, directly or through any corporation, subsidiary, 

division, or other device, in connection with the advertising, marketing, promotion, offering for 
sale, or sale of any product or service, in or affecting commerce, shall, no later than the date of 
service of this order, establish and implement, and thereafter maintain, a comprehensive 
information security program that is reasonably designed to protect the security, confidentiality, 
and integrity of personal information collected from or about consumers.  Such program, the 
content and implementation of which must be fully documented in writing, shall contain 
administrative, technical, and physical safeguards appropriate to respondent’s size and 
complexity, the nature and scope of respondent’s activities, and the sensitivity of the personal 
information collected from or about consumers, including:  

the designation of an employee or employees to coordinate and be accountable for 

A. 
the information security program.  

the identification of material internal and external risks to the security, 

B. 
confidentiality, and integrity of personal information that could result in the unauthorized 
disclosure, misuse, loss, alteration, destruction, or other compromise of such information, 
and assessment of the sufficiency of any safeguards in place to control these risks.  At a 
minimum, this risk assessment should include consideration of risks in each area of 
relevant operation, including, but not limited to: (1) employee training and management; 
(2) information systems, including network and software design, information processing, 
storage, transmission, and disposal; and (3) prevention, detection, and response to attacks, 
intrusions, or other systems failures. 

C. 
the design and implementation of reasonable safeguards to control the risks 
identified through risk assessment, and regular testing or monitoring of the effectiveness 
of the safeguards’ key controls, systems, and procedures.  

the evaluation and adjustment of respondent’s information security program in 

D. 
light of the results of the testing and monitoring required by subparagraph C, any material 
changes to respondent’s operations or business arrangements, or any other circumstances 
that respondent knows or has reason to know may have a material impact on the 
effectiveness of its information security program. 

II. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, in connection with its compliance with Paragraph I 

of this order, respondent shall obtain initial and biennial assessments and reports 
(“Assessments”) from a qualified, objective, independent third-party professional, using 
procedures and standards generally accepted in the profession.  The reporting period for the 
Assessments shall cover: (1) the first one hundred and eighty (180) days after service of the order 

Page 3 of  6 

for the initial Assessment, and (2) each two (2) year period thereafter for twenty (20) years after 
service of the order for the biennial Assessments.  Each Assessment shall:  

set forth the specific administrative, technical, and physical safeguards that 

A. 
respondent has implemented and maintained during the reporting period; 

explain how such safeguards are appropriate to respondent’s size and complexity, 

B. 
the nature and scope of respondent’s activities, and the sensitivity of the personal 
information collected from or about consumers; 

explain how the safeguards that have been implemented meet or exceed the 

C. 
protections required by Paragraph I of this order; and 

D. 
certify that respondent’s security program is operating with sufficient 
effectiveness to provide reasonable assurance that the security, confidentiality, and 
integrity of personal information is protected and has so operated throughout the reporting 
period. 

Each Assessment shall be prepared and completed within sixty (60) days after the end of the 
reporting period to which the Assessment applies by a person qualified as a Certified Information 
System Security Professional (CISSP) or as a Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA); a 
person holding Global Information Assurance Certification (GIAC) from the SysAdmin, Audit, 
Network, Security (SANS) Institute; or a similarly qualified person or organization approved by 
the Associate Director for Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade 
Commission, Washington, D.C. 20580. 

Respondent shall provide the initial Assessment, as well as all: plans, reports, studies, reviews, 
audits, audit trails, policies, training materials, and assessments, whether prepared by or on 
behalf of respondent, relied upon to prepare such Assessment to the Associate Director for 
Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, Washington, D.C. 
20580, within ten (10) days after the Assessment has been prepared.  All subsequent biennial 
Assessments shall be retained by respondent until the order is terminated and provided to the 
Associate Director of Enforcement within ten (10) days of request. 

III. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent shall maintain, and upon request make 

available to the Federal Trade Commission for inspection and copying, a print or electronic copy 
of each document relating to compliance, including but not limited to:  

for a period of five (5) years: any documents, whether prepared by or on behalf of 

A. 
respondent, that contradict, qualify, or call into question respondent’s compliance with 
this order; and 

Page 4 of  6 

for a period of three (3) years after the date of preparation of each biennial 
B. 
Assessment required under Paragraph II of this order: all plans, reports, studies, reviews, 
audits, audit trails, policies, training materials, and assessments, whether prepared by or 
on behalf of respondent, relating to respondent’s compliance with Paragraphs I and II of 
this order for the compliance period covered by such biennial Assessment. 

IV. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent shall deliver a copy of this order to all 

current and future principals, officers, directors, and managers, and to all current and future 
employees, agents, and representatives having managerial responsibilities relating to the subject 
matter of this order.  Respondent shall deliver this order to such current personnel within thirty 
(30) days after service of this order, and to such future personnel within thirty (30) days after the 
person assumes such position or responsibilities. 

V. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent shall notify the Commission at least thirty 

(30) days prior to any change in the corporation that may affect compliance obligations arising 
under this order, including, but not limited to, a dissolution, assignment, sale, merger, or other 
action that would result in the emergence of a successor corporation; the creation or dissolution 
of a subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts or practices subject to this order; the 
proposed filing of a bankruptcy petition; or a change in either corporate name or address. 
Provided, however, that, with respect to any proposed change in the corporation about which 
respondent learns less than thirty (30) days prior to the date such action is to take place, 
respondent shall notify the Commission as soon as is practicable after obtaining such knowledge. 
All notices required by this Paragraph shall be sent by certified mail to the Associate Director, 
Division of Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 
Washington, D.C. 20580. 

VI. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent shall, within one hundred and eighty 
(180) days after service of this order, and at such other times as the Commission may require, file 
with the Commission an initial report, in writing, setting forth in detail the manner and form in 
which it has complied with this order. 

VII. 

This order will terminate on September 5, 2026, or twenty (20) years from the most 

recent date that the United States or the Federal Trade Commission files a complaint (with or 
without an accompanying consent decree) in federal court alleging any violation of the order, 

Page 5 of  6 

whichever comes later; provided, however, that the filing of such a complaint will not affect the 
duration of: 

A. 

any Paragraph in this order that terminates in less than twenty (20) years; 

this order’s application to any respondent that is not named as a defendant in such 

B. 
complaint; and 

this order if such complaint is filed after the order has terminated pursuant to this 

C. 
Paragraph. 

Provided, further, that if such complaint is dismissed or a federal court rules that respondent did 
not violate any provision of the order, and the dismissal or ruling is either not appealed or upheld 
on appeal, then the order will terminate according to this Paragraph as though the complaint had 
never been filed, except that the order will not terminate between the date such complaint is filed 
and the later of the deadline for appealing such dismissal or ruling and the date such dismissal or 
ruling is upheld on appeal. 

By the Commission, Commissioner Harbour recused. 

SEAL: 
ISSUED:  September 5, 2006 

Donald S. Clark 
Secretary 

Page 6 of  6 

