COMMISSIONERS:	

 052 3096 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION 

Deborah Platt Majoras, Chairman 
Pamela Jones Harbour 
Jon Leibowitz 
William E. Kovacic 
J. Thomas Rosch 

In the Matter of 

____________________________________ 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
____________________________________) 

DSW Inc., 
a corporation. 

DECISION AND ORDER 

DOCKET NO. C-4157 

The Federal Trade Commission having initiated an investigation of certain acts and practices 
of the respondent named in the caption hereof, and respondent having been furnished thereafter with 
a copy of a draft Complaint that the Bureau of Consumer Protection proposed to present to the 
Commission  for  its  consideration  and  which,  if  issued  by  the  Commission,  would  charge 
Respondent with violation of the Federal Trade Commission Act, 15 U.S.C. § 45 et seq.; and 

Respondent, its attorney, and counsel for the Commission having thereafter executed an 
Agreement Containing Consent Order (“Consent Agreement”), an admission by respondent of all 
the jurisdictional facts set forth in the aforesaid draft Complaint, a statement that the signing of said 
Consent  Agreement  is  for  settlement  purposes  only  and  does  not  constitute  an  admission  by 
respondent that the law has been violated as alleged in such Complaint, or that the facts as alleged 
in such Complaint, other than jurisdictional facts, are true, and waivers and other provisions as 
required by the Commission’s Rules; and 

The Commission having thereafter considered the matter and having determined that it has 
reason to believe respondent has violated the said Act, and that a Complaint should issue stating its 
charges in that respect, and having thereupon accepted the executed Consent Agreement and placed 
such Consent Agreement on the public record for a period of thirty (30) days, and having duly 
considered the comments filed thereafter by interested persons pursuant to Section 2.34 of its Rules, 
now in further conformity with the procedure described in Section 2.34 of its Rules, the Commission 
hereby issues its Complaint, makes the following jurisdictional findings and enters the following 
Order: 

1


1. 

Respondent DSW Inc. is an Ohio corporation with its principal office or place of 

business at 4150 East 5th Avenue, Columbus, Ohio 43219. 

2. 

The  Federal  Trade  Commission  has  jurisdiction  of  the  subject  matter  of  this 

proceeding and of Respondent, and the proceeding is in the public interest. 

ORDER 

DEFINITIONS 

For purposes of this order, the following definitions shall apply:  

1. 

“Personal information” shall mean individually identifiable information from or about 
an individual consumer including, but not limited to:  (a) a first and last name; (b) a home or other 
physical address, including street name and name of city or town; (c) an email address or other online 
contact information, such as an instant messaging user identifier or a screen name that reveals an 
individual’s email address; (d) a telephone number; (e) a Social Security number; (f) credit and/or 
debit card information, including credit and/or debit card number, expiration date, and data stored 
on the magnetic strip of a credit or debit card; (g) checking account information, including the ABA 
routing number, account number, and check number; (h) a driver’s license number; or (i) any other 
information from or about an individual consumer that is combined with (a) through (h) above. 

2. 

“Commerce” shall mean as defined in Section 4 of the Federal Trade Commission 

Act, 15 U.S.C. §  44. 

3. 

Unless otherwise specified, “respondent” shall mean DSW Inc., its successors and 

assigns and its officers, agents, representatives, and employees. 

I. 

IT IS ORDERED that respondent, directly or through any corporation, subsidiary, division, 
or other device, in connection with the advertising, marketing, promotion, offering for sale, or sale 
of any product or service, in or affecting commerce, shall, no later than the date of service of this 
order,  establish  and  implement,  and  thereafter  maintain,  a  comprehensive  information  security 
program that is reasonably designed to protect the security, confidentiality, and integrity of personal 
information collected from or about consumers.  Such program, the content and implementation of 
which must be fully documented in writing, shall contain administrative, technical, and physical 
safeguards appropriate to respondent’s size and complexity, the nature and scope of respondent’s 
activities,  and  the  sensitivity  of  the  personal  information  collected  from  or  about  consumers, 
including: 

2


A.	

B.	

C.	

D.	

the  designation  of  an  employee  or  employees  to  coordinate  and  be 
accountable for the information security program. 

the  identification  of  material  internal  and  external  risks  to  the  security, 
confidentiality, and integrity of personal information that could result in the 
unauthorized  disclosure,  misuse,  loss,  alteration,  destruction,  or  other 
compromise of such information, and assessment of the sufficiency of any 
safeguards in place to control these risks.  At a minimum, this risk assessment 
should  include  consideration  of  risks  in  each  area  of  relevant  operation, 
including, but not limited to: (1) employee training and management; (2) 
information systems, including network and software design, information 
processing, storage, transmission, and disposal; and (3) prevention, detection, 
and response to attacks, intrusions, or other system failures. 

the design and implementation of reasonable safeguards to control the risks 
identified through risk assessment, and regular testing or monitoring of the 
effectiveness of the safeguards’ key controls, systems, and procedures. 

the evaluation and adjustment of respondent’s information security program 
in light of the results of the testing and monitoring required by subparagraph 
C, any material changes to respondent’s operations or business arrangements, 
or any other circumstances that respondent knows or has reason to know may 
have  a  material  impact  on  the  effectiveness  of  its  information  security 
program. 

II. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, in connection with its compliance with Paragraph I of this 
order, respondent shall obtain initial and biennial assessments and reports (“Assessments”) from a 
qualified, objective, independent third-party professional, using procedures and standards generally 
accepted in the profession.  The reporting period for the Assessments shall cover:  (1) the first one 
hundred and eighty (180) days after service of the order for the initial Assessment, and (2) each two 
(2)  year  period  thereafter  for  twenty  (20)  years  after  service  of  the  order  for  the  biennial 
Assessments.  Each Assessment shall:  

A.	

B.	

set  forth  the  specific  administrative,  technical,  and  physical  safeguards 
that respondent has implemented and maintained during the reporting period; 

explain  how  such  safeguards  are  appropriate  to  respondent’s  size  and 
complexity,  the  nature  and  scope  of  respondent’s  activities,  and  the 
sensitivity of  the nonpublic  personal  information  collected from or about 
consumers; 

3


C.	

D.	

explain  how  the  safeguards  that  have  been  implemented  meet  or  exceed 
the protections required by Paragraph I of this order; and 

certify  that  respondent’s  security  program  is  operating  with  sufficient 
effectiveness 
the  security, 
confidentiality, and integrity of nonpublic personal information is protected 
and has so operated throughout the reporting period. 

reasonable  assurance 

to  provide 

that 

Each  Assessment  shall  be  prepared  and  completed  within  sixty  (60)  days  after  the  end  of  the 
reporting period to which the Assessment applies by a person qualified as a Certified Information 
System SecurityProfessional (CISSP); a person qualified as a Certified Information Systems Auditor 
(CISA); a person holding Global Information Assurance Certification (GIAC) from the SysAdmin, 
Audit, Network, Security (SANS) Institute; or  a similarly qualified person or organization approved 
by  the  Associate  Director  for  Enforcement,  Bureau  of  Consumer  Protection,  Federal  Trade 
Commission, Washington, D.C. 20580. 

Respondent shall provide the initial Assessment, as well as all:  plans, reports, studies, reviews, 
audits, audit trails, policies, training materials, and assessments, whether prepared by or on behalf 
of respondent, relied upon to prepare such Assessment to the Associate Director for Enforcement, 
Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, Washington, D.C. 20580, within ten 
(10) days after the Assessment has been prepared.  All subsequent biennial Assessments shall be 
retained  by  respondent  until  the  order  is  terminated  and  provided  to  the  Associate  Director  of 
Enforcement within ten (10) days of request.   

III. 

IT  IS  FURTHER  ORDERED  that  respondent  shall  maintain,  and  upon  request  make 
available to the Federal Trade Commission for inspection and copying, a print or electronic copy of 
each document relating to compliance with the terms and provision of this order, including but not 
limited to: 

A.	

B.	

for a period of five (5) years: any documents, whether prepared by or on 
behalf  of  respondent,  that  contradict,  qualify,  or  call  into  question 
respondent’s compliance with this order; and 

for a period of three (3) years after the date of preparation of each biennial 
Assessment  required  under  Paragraph  II  of  this  order:  all  plans,  reports, 
studies,  reviews,  audits,  audit  trails,  policies,  training  materials,  and 
assessments,  whether  prepared  by  or  on  behalf  of  respondent,  relating  to 
respondent’s  compliance  with  Paragraphs  I  and  II  of  this  order  for  the 
reporting period covered by such biennial Assessment. 

4


IV.


IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, for a period of ten (10) years after the date of service of 
this order, respondent shall deliver a copy of this order to all current and future principals, officers, 
directors, and managers, and to all current and future employees, agents, and representatives having 
supervisory responsibilities with respect to the subject matter of this order.  Respondent shall deliver 
this order to such current personnel within thirty (30) days after the date of service of this order, and 
to  such  future  personnel  within  thirty  (30)  days  after  the  person  assumes  such  position  or 
responsibilities. 

V. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent shall notify the Commission at least thirty (30) 
days prior to any change in the corporation that may affect compliance obligations arising under this 
order, including, but not limited to, a dissolution, assignment, sale, merger, or other action that 
would result in the emergence of a successor corporation; the creation or dissolution of a subsidiary, 
parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts or practices subject to this order; the proposed filing of 
a bankruptcy petition; or a change in the corporate name or address.  Provided, however, that, with 
respect to any proposed change in the corporation about which respondent learns less than thirty (30) 
days prior to the date such action is to take place, respondent shall notify the Commission as soon 
as is practicable after obtaining such knowledge.  All notices required by this Paragraph shall be sent 
by  certified  mail  to  the  Associate  Director,  Division  of  Enforcement,  Bureau  of  Consumer 
Protection, Federal Trade Commission, Washington, D.C. 20580. 

VI. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent shall, within one hundred eighty (180) days 
after service of this order, and at such other times as the Federal Trade Commission may require, file 
with the Commission an initial report, in writing, setting forth in detail the manner and form in 
which it has complied with this order. 

VII. 

This order will terminate on March 7, 2026, or twenty (20) years from the most recent date 
that  the  United  States  or  the  Federal  Trade  Commission  files  a  complaint  (with  or  without  an 
accompanying consent decree) in federal court alleging any violation of the order, whichever comes 
later; provided, however, that the filing of such a complaint will not affect the duration of: 

A.	

B.	

Any Paragraph in this order that terminates in less than twenty (20) years; 

This order’s application to any respondent that is not named as a defendant in such 
complaint; and 

5


C.	

this order if such complaint is filed after the order has terminated pursuant to this 
Paragraph. 

Provided,  further,  that  if  such  complaint  is  dismissed  or  a  federal  court  rules  that  the 
respondent  did  not  violate  any  provision  of  the  order,  and  the  dismissal  or  ruling  is  either  not 
appealed or upheld on appeal, then the order will terminate according to this Paragraph as though 
the complaint had never been filed, except that the order will not terminate between the date such 
complaint is filed and the later of the deadline for appealing such dismissal or ruling and the date 
such dismissal or ruling is upheld on appeal. 

By the Commission. 

SEAL: 
ISSUED:  March 7, 2006 

Donald S. Clark 
Secretary 

6


