                                                                                                                                            0523094

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION

COMMISSIONERS:

William E. Kovacic, Chairman
Pamela Jones Harbour
Jon Leibowitz
J. Thomas Rosch

In the Matter of

     )
     )
                             )
     )
REED ELSEVIER INC. and
SEISINT, INC., corporations.
     )
                                                                 )

DOCKET NO. C-4226

DECISION AND ORDER

The Federal Trade Commission having initiated an investigation of certain acts and practices
of  the  Respondents  named  in  the  caption  hereof,  and  the  Respondents  having  been  furnished
thereafter with a copy of a draft Complaint that the Bureau of Consumer Protection proposed to
present to the Commission for its consideration and which, if issued by the Commission, would
charge the Respondents with violation of the Federal Trade Commission Act, 15 U.S.C. § 45 et seq;

The Respondents, their attorney, and counsel for the Commission having thereafter executed
an Agreement Containing Consent Order (“Consent Agreement”), an admission by the Respondents
of all the jurisdictional facts set forth in the aforesaid draft Complaint, a statement that the signing
of said Consent Agreement is for settlement purposes only and does not constitute an admission by
Respondents that the law has been violated as alleged in such Complaint, or that the facts as alleged
in such Complaint, other than jurisdictional facts, are true, and waivers and other provisions as
required by the Commission's Rules; and

The Commission having thereafter considered the matter and having determined that it has
reason to believe that the Respondents have violated the said Act, and that a Complaint should issue
stating its charges in that respect, and having thereupon accepted the executed Consent Agreement
and placed such Consent Agreement on the public record for a period of thirty (30) days, and having
duly considered the comments filed thereafter by interested persons pursuant to Section 2.34 of its
Rules, now in further conformity with the procedure described in Section 2.34 of its Rules, the
Commission hereby issues its Complaint, makes the following jurisdictional findings and enters the
following Order:

Page 1 of  7

                                                                  
     
1.

Respondent Reed Elsevier Inc. is a Massachusetts corporation with its
principal office or place of business at 125 Park Avenue, Suite 2300, New York, New York 10017.
Respondent Seisint, Inc. is a Florida corporation with its principal office or place of business at 6601
Park of Commerce Boulevard, Boca Raton, Florida 33487. 

2

The  Federal  Trade  Commission  has  jurisdiction  of  the  subject  matter  of  this

proceeding and of the Respondents, and the proceeding is in the public interest.

ORDER

DEFINITIONS

For purposes of this order, the following definitions shall apply:  

1.

“Personal information” shall mean individually identifiable information from or

about a consumer including, but not limited to: (a) a first and last name; (b) a home or other physical
address, including street name and name of city or town; (c) an email address or other online contact
information, such as an instant messaging user identifier or a screen name that reveals a consumer’s
email address; (d) a telephone number; (e) a Social Security number; (f) a date of birth; (g) a driver’s
license number; (h) credit and/or debit card information, including but not limited to card number
and expiration date and transaction detail data; (i) a persistent identifier, such as a customer number
held  in  a  “cookie”  or  processor  serial  number,  that  is  combined  with  other  available  data  that
identifies a consumer; or (j) any other information from or about a consumer that is combined with
(a) through (i) above.

2.

“Information product or service” shall mean each product, service, or other means 
by  which  respondents  individually  or  collectively  provide  direct  or  indirect  access  to  personal
information from or about consumers that is comprised in whole or part of nonpublic information;
provided, however, that this term shall not include information products or services that: (a) provide
access solely to personal information that is publicly available information, or (b) permit customers
to upload or otherwise supply, organize, manage, or retrieve information that is under the customer’s
control. 

3.

“Publicly available information” shall mean information that respondents have a

reasonable basis to believe is lawfully made available to the general public from: (a) Federal, State,
or local government records, (b) widely distributed media, or (c) disclosures to the general public
that are required to be made by Federal, State, or local law.  Respondents shall have a reasonable
basis to believe information is lawfully made available to the general public if respondents have
taken reasonable steps to determine: (a) that the information is of the type that is available to the
general public, and (b) whether an individual can direct that the information not be made available
to the general public and, if so, that the individual has not done so.

Page 2 of  7

4.

“LexisNexis” shall mean Seisint, Inc., and its successors and assigns, officers,

agents, representatives, and employees, and the LexisNexis division of respondent Reed Elsevier
Inc.,  and  its  successors  and  assigns,  officers,  agents,  representatives,  and  employees;  provided,
however, that, for the purposes of this order, LexisNexis shall:

(a) be treated as a corporation under the control of respondent Reed Elsevier Inc. for the

purpose of determining whether any other entity is a successor or assign of LexisNexis; and

(b) include any other corporation, subsidiary, division, or other device under the control

of respondent Reed Elsevier Inc. (collectively, “entity”) to the extent that such entity advertises,
markets, promotes, offers for sale, or sells any information product or service that includes a Social
Security number; driver’s license number; date of birth; or bank, credit  card, or  other financial
account  number  (collectively,  “designated  information”),  including,  but  not  limited  to,  any
information product or service that can be used to access, view, or retrieve designated information
from databases under the entity’s possession or control. 

5.

Unless  otherwise  specified,  “respondents”  shall  mean  Reed  Elsevier  Inc.,  its
successors and assigns, officers, agents, representatives, and employees, and Seisint, Inc., and its
successors and assigns, officers, agents, representatives, and employees.

I.

IT IS ORDERED that each respondent, directly or through any corporation, subsidiary,
division, or other device, in connection with the advertising, marketing, promotion, offering for sale,
or sale of personal information collected  from or about  consumers made  available  through any
information product or service of LexisNexis (“the information”), in or affecting commerce, shall,
no later than the date of service of this order, establish and implement, and thereafter maintain, a
comprehensive information security program that is reasonably designed to protect the security,
confidentiality, and integrity of the information.  Such program, the content and implementation of
which must be fully documented in writing, shall contain administrative, technical, and physical
safeguards  appropriate  to  each  respondent’s  size  and  complexity,  the  nature  and  scope  of  each
respondent’s activities, and the sensitivity of the information, including: 

the designation of an employee or employees to coordinate and be accountable for

A.
the information security program.  

B.
the  identification  of  material  internal  and  external  risks  to  the  security,
confidentiality,  and  integrity  of  the  information  that  could  result  in  the  unauthorized
disclosure, misuse, loss, alteration, destruction, or other compromise of the information, and
assessment  of  the  sufficiency  of  any  safeguards  in  place  to  control  these  risks.    At  a
minimum, this risk assessment should include consideration of risks in each area of relevant
operation,  including,  but  not  limited  to:  (1)  employee  training  and  management;  (2)
information  systems,  including  network  and  software  design,  information  processing,

Page 3 of  7

 
storage, transmission, and disposal; and (3) prevention, detection, and response to attacks,
intrusions, or other systems failures.  

the design and implementation of reasonable safeguards to control the risks identified
C.
through  risk  assessment,  and  regular  testing  or  monitoring  of  the  effectiveness  of  the
safeguards’ key controls, systems, and procedures.  

the development and use of reasonable steps to select and retain service providers
D.
capable of appropriately safeguarding personal information they receive from respondent,
and  requiring  service  providers  by  contract  to  implement  and  maintain  appropriate
safeguards; provided, however, that this subparagraph shall not apply to personal information
about a consumer that respondent provides to a government agency or lawful information
supplier when the agency or supplier already possesses the information and uses it only to
retrieve, and supply to respondent, additional personal information about the consumer. 

E.
the evaluation and adjustment of respondent’s information security program in light
of the results of the testing and monitoring required by subparagraph C, any material changes
to  respondent’s  operations  or  business  arrangements,  or  any  other  circumstances  that
respondent knows or has reason to know may have a material impact on the effectiveness of
its information security program. 

II.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, in connection with its compliance with Paragraph I of
this order, each respondent shall obtain initial and biennial assessments and reports (“Assessments”)
from a qualified, objective, independent third-party professional, who uses procedures and standards
generally accepted in the profession.  The reporting period for the Assessments shall cover: (1) the
first one hundred and eighty (180) days after service of the order for the initial Assessment, and (2)
each two (2) year period thereafter for twenty (20) years after service of the order for the biennial
Assessments.  Each Assessment shall:  

set  forth  the  specific  administrative,  technical,  and  physical  safeguards  that

A.
respondent has implemented and maintained during the reporting period; 

B.
explain how such safeguards are appropriate to respondent’s size and complexity, the
nature and scope of respondent’s activities, and the sensitivity of the personal information
collected from or about consumers; 

explain  how  the  safeguards  that  have  been  implemented  meet  or  exceed  the

C.
protections required by Paragraph I of this order; and

Page 4 of  7

certify that respondent’s security program is operating with sufficient effectiveness
D.
to provide reasonable assurance that the security, confidentiality, and integrity of personal
information is protected and has so operated throughout the reporting period.

Each  Assessment  shall  be  prepared  and  completed  within  sixty  (60)  days  after  the  end  of  the
reporting period to which the Assessment applies by a person qualified as a Certified Information
System Security Professional (CISSP) or as a Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA); a
person holding Global Information Assurance Certification (GIAC) from the SysAdmin, Audit,
Network, Security (SANS) Institute; or a similarly qualified person or organization approved by the
Associate Director for Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission,
Washington, D.C. 20580.  

Respondent shall provide the initial Assessment to the Associate Director for Enforcement, Bureau
of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, Washington, D.C. 20580, within ten (10) days
after the Assessment has been prepared.  All subsequent biennial Assessments shall be retained by
respondent until the order is terminated and provided to the Associate Director of Enforcement
within ten (10) days of request.

III.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that each respondent shall maintain, and upon request make
available to the Federal Trade Commission for inspection and copying, a print or electronic copy of
each document relating to compliance, including but not limited to:  

A.
for a period of five (5) years: any documents, whether prepared by or on behalf of
respondent, that contradict, qualify, or call into question its compliance with this order; and

B.
for  a  period  of  three  (3)  years  after  the  date  of  preparation  of  each  Assessment
required under Paragraph II of this order: all materials relied upon to prepare the Assessment,
whether prepared by or behalf of respondent, including, but not limited to, all plans, reports,
studies, reviews, audits, audit trails, policies, training materials, and assessments and any
other  materials  relating to its compliance  with  Paragraphs  I and  II  of this  order,  for the
compliance period covered by such Assessment. 

IV.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that each respondent shall deliver a copy of this order to all
current  and  future  principals,  officers,  directors,  and  managers,  and  to  all  current  and  future
employees, agents, and representatives having managerial responsibilities relating to the subject
matter of this order.  Each respondent shall deliver this order to such current personnel within thirty
(30) days after service of this order, and to such future personnel within thirty (30) days after the
person assumes such position or responsibilities.

Page 5 of  7

V.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that each respondent shall notify the Commission at least
thirty (30) days prior to any change in the corporation that may affect compliance obligations arising
under this order, including, but not limited to, a dissolution, assignment, sale, merger, or other action
that  would  result  in  the  emergence  of  a  successor  corporation;  the  creation  or  dissolution  of  a
subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts or practices subject to this order; the proposed
filing of a bankruptcy petition; or a change in either corporate name or address.  Provided, however,
that, with respect to any proposed change in the corporation about which respondent learns less than
thirty (30) days prior to the date such action is to take place, respondent shall notify the Commission
as soon as is practicable after obtaining such knowledge.  All notices required by this Paragraph shall
be sent by certified mail to the Associate Director, Division of Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer
Protection, Federal Trade Commission, Washington, D.C. 20580.  

VI.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that each respondent shall, within one hundred and eighty
(180) days after service of this order, and at such other times as the Commission may require, file
with the Commission an initial report, in writing, setting forth in detail the manner and form in
which it has complied with this order.  

VII.  

This order will terminate on July 29, 2028, or twenty (20) years from the most recent date
that  the  United  States  or  the  Federal  Trade  Commission  files  a  complaint  (with  or  without  an
accompanying consent decree) in federal court alleging any violation of the order, whichever comes
later; provided, however, that the filing of such a complaint will not affect the duration of:

A.

any Paragraph in this order that terminates in less than twenty (20) years;

this order’s application to any respondent that is not named as a defendant in such

B.
complaint; and

this order if such complaint is filed after the order has terminated pursuant to this

C.
Paragraph.  

Provided, further, that if such complaint is dismissed or a federal court rules that respondent did not
violate any provision of the order, and the dismissal or ruling is either not appealed or upheld on
appeal, then the order will terminate according to this Paragraph as though the complaint had never

Page 6 of  7

 
been filed, except that the order will not terminate between the date such complaint is filed and the
later of the deadline for appealing such dismissal or ruling and the date such dismissal or ruling is
upheld on appeal.  

By the Commission.

SEAL:
ISSUED: July 29, 2008

Donald S. Clark
Secretary

Page 7 of  7

