COMMISSIONERS:

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION

William E. Kovacic, Chairman
Pamela Jones Harbour
Jon Leibowitz
J. Thomas Rosch

______________________________

0723046

In the Matter of

LIFE IS GOOD, INC.,
a corporation,

)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
LIFE IS GOOD RETAIL, INC.,
a corporation.
)
______________________________)

and

DOCKET NO. C-4218

DECISION AND ORDER

The Federal Trade Commission, having initiated an investigation of certain acts and
practices of the Respondents named in the caption hereof, and the Respondents having been
furnished thereafter with a copy of a draft complaint, which the Bureau of Consumer Protection
proposed to present to the Commission, and which would charge the Respondents with violation
of the Federal Trade Commission Act; and

The Respondents and counsel for the Commission having thereafter executed an
agreement containing a consent order, an admission by the Respondents of all the jurisdictional
facts set forth in the aforesaid draft complaint, a statement that the signing of the agreement is for
settlement purposes only and does not constitute an admission by the Respondents that the law
has been violated as alleged in such complaint, or that any of the facts as alleged in such
complaint, other than jurisdictional facts, are true, and waivers and other provisions as required
by the Commission’s Rules; and

The Commission having thereafter considered the matter and having determined that it
had reason to believe that the Respondents have violated the Act, and that a complaint should
issue stating its charges in that respect, and having thereupon accepted the executed consent
agreement and placed such agreement on the public record for a period of thirty (30) days, and
having duly considered the comment filed thereafter by an interested party pursuant to Section

1

2.34 of its Rules, now in further conformity with the procedure prescribed in Section 2.34 of its
Rules, the Commission hereby issues its complaint, makes the following jurisdictional findings,
and enters the following order:

1.

2.

3.

Respondent Life is good, Inc., is a Massachusetts corporation with its principal office or
place of business at 283-285 Newbury Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02115.  

Respondent Life is good Retail, Inc., is a Delaware corporation with its principal office or
place of business at 283-285 Newbury Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02115.  Life is good
Retail, Inc., is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Life is good, Inc.  

The Federal Trade Commission has jurisdiction of the subject matter of this proceeding
and of the Respondents, and proceeding is in the public interest.

ORDER

DEFINITIONS

For purposes of this Order, the following definitions shall apply:

1.

2.

3.

“Personally identifiable information” or “personal information” shall mean individually
identifiable information from or about an individual consumer including, but not limited
to:  (a) a first and last name; (b) a home or other physical address, including street name
and name of city or town; (c) an email address or other online contact information, such
as an instant messaging user identifier or a screen name that reveals an individual’s email
address; (d) a telephone number; (e) a Social Security number; (f) credit or debit card
information, including card number, expiration date, and security code; (g) a persistent
identifier, such as a customer number held in a “cookie” or processor serial number, that
is combined with other available data that identifies an individual consumer; or (h) any
information that is combined with any of (a) through (g) above.

Unless otherwise specified, “respondents” shall mean Life is good, Inc., Life is good
Retail, Inc., and their successors and assigns, officers, agents, representatives,
subsidiaries, affiliates, and employees.

“Commerce” shall mean as defined in Section 4 of the Federal Trade Commission Act,
15 U.S.C. § 44.

I.

IT IS ORDERED that respondents, directly or through any corporation, subsidiary,
division, or other device, in connection with the collection of personally identifiable information
from or about consumers, in or affecting commerce, shall not misrepresent in any manner,

2

expressly or by implication, the extent to which respondents maintain and protect the privacy,
confidentiality, or integrity of any personal information collected from or about consumers. 

II.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondents, directly or through any corporation,

subsidiary, division, or other device, in connection with the advertising, marketing, promotion,
offering for sale, or sale of any product or service, in or affecting commerce, shall, no later than
the date of service of this order, establish and implement, and thereafter maintain, a
comprehensive information security program that is reasonably designed to protect the security,
confidentiality, and integrity of personal information collected from or about consumers.  Such
program, the content and implementation of which must be fully documented in writing, shall
contain administrative, technical, and physical safeguards appropriate to respondents’ size and
complexity, the nature and scope of respondents’ activities, and the sensitivity of the personal
information collected from or about consumers, including:  

A.

B.

C.

D.

the designation of an employee or employees to coordinate and be
accountable for the information security program;  

the identification of material internal and external risks to the security,
confidentiality, and integrity of personal information that could result in
the unauthorized disclosure, misuse, loss, alteration, destruction, or other
compromise of such information, and assessment of the sufficiency of any
safeguards in place to control these risks.  At a minimum, this risk
assessment should include consideration of risks in each area of relevant
operation, including, but not limited to, (1) employee training and
management, (2) information systems, including network and software
design, information processing, storage, transmission, and disposal, and
(3) prevention, detection, and response to attacks, intrusions, or other
systems failure;  

the design and implementation of reasonable safeguards to control the
risks identified through risk assessment, and regular testing or monitoring
of the effectiveness of the safeguards’ key controls, systems, and
procedures;  

the development and use of reasonable steps to retain service providers
capable of appropriately safeguarding personal information they receive
from respondents, requiring service providers by contract to implement
and maintain appropriate safeguards, and monitoring their safeguarding of
personal information; and 

3

E.

the evaluation and adjustment of respondents’ information security
program in light of the results of the testing and monitoring required by
subpart C, any material changes to respondents’ operations or business
arrangements, or any other circumstances that respondents know or have
reason to know may have a material impact on the effectiveness of their
information security program. 

III.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, in connection with their compliance with Part II of
this order, respondents shall obtain initial and biennial assessments and reports (“Assessments”)
from a qualified, objective, independent third-party professional, who uses procedures and
standards generally accepted in the profession.  The reporting period for the Assessments shall
cover: (1) the first one hundred and eighty (180) days after service of the order for the initial
Assessment; and (2) each two (2) year period thereafter for twenty (20) years after service of the
order for the biennial Assessments.  Each Assessment shall:

A.

B.

C.

D.

set forth the specific administrative, technical, and physical safeguards that
respondents have implemented and maintained during the reporting
period;

explain how such safeguards are appropriate to respondents’ size and
complexity, the nature and scope of respondents’ activities, and the
sensitivity of the personal information collected from or about consumers;

explain how the safeguards that have been implemented meet or exceed 
the protections required by Part II of this order; and

certify that respondents’ security program is operating with sufficient
effectiveness to provide reasonable assurance that the security,
confidentiality, and integrity of personal information is protected and has
so operated throughout the reporting period.

Each Assessment shall be prepared and completed within sixty (60) days after the end of the
reporting period to which the Assessment applies by: a person qualified as a Certified
Information System Security Professional (CISSP) or as a Certified Information Systems Auditor
(CISA); a person holding Global Information Assurance Certification (GIAC) from the
SysAdmin, Audit, Network, Security (SANS) Institute; or a similarly qualified person or
organization approved by the Associate Director for Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer
Protection, Federal Trade Commission, Washington, D.C. 20580.

Respondents shall provide the initial Assessment to the Associate Director for Enforcement,
Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, Washington, D.C. 20580, within

4

ten (10) days after the Assessment has been prepared.  All subsequent biennial Assessments shall
be retained by respondents until the order is terminated and provided to the Associate Director of
Enforcement within ten (10) days of request.

IV.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondents shall maintain, and upon request make

available to the Federal Trade Commission for inspection and copying, a print or electronic copy
of each document relating to compliance, including but not limited to:  

A.

B.

for a period of five (5) years, any documents, whether prepared by or on
behalf of either respondent, that contradict, qualify, or call into question
respondents’ compliance with this order; and

for a period of three (3) years after the date of preparation of each
Assessment required under Part III of this order, all materials relied upon
to prepare the Assessment, whether prepared by or on behalf of either
respondent, including but not limited to all plans, reports, studies, reviews,
audits, audit trails, policies, training materials, and assessments, and any
other materials relating to respondents’ compliance with Part II of this
order, for the compliance period covered by such Assessment. 
Respondent shall provide such documents to the Associate Director of
Enforcement within ten (10) days of request. 

V.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondents shall deliver a copy of this order to all

current and future principals, officers, directors, and managers, and to all current and future
employees, agents, and representatives having responsibilities relating to the subject matter of
this order.  Respondents shall deliver this order to such current personnel within thirty (30) days
after service of this order, and to such future personnel within thirty (30) days after the person
assumes such position or responsibilities.

VI.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondents and their successors and assigns shall

notify the Commission at least thirty (30) days prior to any change in the corporation(s) that may
affect compliance obligations arising under this order, including, but not limited to: a dissolution,
assignment, sale, merger, or other action that would result in the emergence of a successor
corporation; the creation or dissolution of a subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts
or practices subject to this order; the proposed filing of a bankruptcy petition; or a change in the
corporate name or address.  Provided, however, that, with respect to any proposed change in the
corporation(s) about which respondents learn fewer than thirty (30) days prior to the date such

5

action is to take place, respondents shall notify the Commission as soon as is practicable after
obtaining such knowledge.  All notices required by this Part shall be sent by certified mail to the
Associate Director, Division of Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade
Commission, Washington, D.C. 20580.

VII.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondents and their successors and assigns shall,
within one hundred and eighty (180) days after service of this order, and at such other times as
the Commission may require, file with the Commission a report, in writing, setting forth in detail
the manner and form in which they have complied with this order.

VIII.

This order will terminate on April 16, 2028, or twenty (20) years from the most recent

date that the United States or the Commission files a complaint (with or without an
accompanying consent decree) in federal court alleging any violation of the order, whichever
comes later; provided, however, that the filing of such a complaint will not affect the duration of:

A.

B.

C.

any Part in this order that terminates in fewer than twenty (20) years;

this order’s application to any respondent that is not named as a defendant in such
complaint; and

this order if such complaint is filed after the order has terminated pursuant to this
Part.

Provided, further, that if such complaint is dismissed or a federal court rules that respondent(s)
did not violate any provision of the order, and the dismissal or ruling is either not appealed or
upheld on appeal, then the order as to such respondent(s) will terminate according to this Part as
though the complaint had never been filed, except that the order will not terminate between the
date such complaint is filed and the later of the deadline for appealing such dismissal or ruling
and the date such dismissal or ruling is upheld on appeal.

By the Commission.

SEAL
ISSUED:  April 16, 2008

Donald S. Clark
Secretary

6

