082 3113

COMMISSIONERS:

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION

Jon Leibowitz, Chairman
Pamela Jones Harbour
William E. Kovacic
J. Thomas Rosch

__________________________________________

In the Matter of

GENICA CORPORATION,
a corporation,

)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
COMPGEEKS.COM also doing business as
)
COMPUTER GEEKS DISCOUNT OUTLET
)
and GEEKS.COM,
)
)
a corporation.
__________________________________________)

and

DOCKET NO. C- 4252

DECISION AND ORDER

The Federal Trade Commission, having initiated an investigation of certain acts and
practices of the Respondents named in the caption hereof, and the Respondents having been
furnished thereafter with a copy of a draft of Complaint which the Bureau of Consumer
Protection proposed to present to the Commission for its consideration and which, if issued,
would charge the Respondents with violation of the Federal Trade Commission Act; and

The Respondents and counsel for the Commission having thereafter executed an
agreement containing a consent order, an admission by the Respondents of all the jurisdictional
facts set forth in the aforesaid draft complaint, a statement that the signing of the agreement is
for settlement purposes only and does not constitute an admission by the Respondents that the
law has been violated as alleged in such complaint, or that any of the facts as alleged in such
complaint, other than jurisdictional facts, are true, and waivers and other provisions as required
by the Commission’s Rules; and

The Commission having thereafter considered the matter and having determined that it

had reason to believe that the Respondents have violated the Federal Trade Commission Act, and
that a complaint should issue stating its charges in that respect, and having thereupon accepted

Page 1 of  6

 
the executed consent agreement and placed such agreement on the public record for a period of
thirty (30) days for the receipt and consideration of public comments, now in further conformity
with the procedure prescribed in Section 2.34 of its Rules, 16 C.F.R. § 2.34, the Commission
hereby issues its complaint, makes the following jurisdictional findings, and enters the following
order:

1.

2.

3.

Respondent Genica Corporation (“Genica”) is a Delaware corporation with its principal
office or place of business at 1890 Ord Way, Oceanside, California 92056.

Respondent Compgeeks.com also doing business as Computer Geeks Discount Outlet
and Geeks.com (“Compgeeks.com”) is a California corporation with its principal office
or place of business at 1890 Ord Way, Oceanside, California 92056.  Compgeeks.com is
a wholly-owned subsidiary of Genica.

The Federal Trade Commission has jurisdiction of the subject matter of this proceeding
and of the Respondents, and the proceeding is in the public interest.

ORDER

DEFINITIONS

For purposes of this Order, the following definitions shall apply:

1.

2.

3.

“Personally identifiable information” or “personal information” shall mean individually
identifiable information from or about an individual consumer including, but not limited
to:  (a) a first and last name; (b) a home or other physical address, including street name
and name of city or town; (c) an email address or other online contact information, such
as an instant messaging user identifier or a screen name; (d) a telephone number; (e) a
Social Security number; (f) a driver’s license or other state-issued identification number;
(g) credit or debit card information, including card number, expiration date, and security
code; (h) a persistent identifier, such as a customer number held in a “cookie” or
processor serial number, that is combined with other available data that identifies an
individual consumer; or (i) any information that is combined with any of (a) through (h)
above.

Unless otherwise specified, “respondents” shall mean Genica, Compgeeks.com, and their
subsidiaries, divisions, affiliates, successors and assigns .

“Commerce” shall mean as defined in Section 4 of the Federal Trade Commission Act,
15 U.S.C. § 44.

I.

IT IS ORDERED that respondents and their officers, agents, representatives, and
employees, directly or through any corporation, subsidiary, division, website, or other device, in

Page 2 of  6

connection with the advertising, marketing, promotion, offering for sale, or sale of any product
or service, in or affecting commerce, shall not misrepresent in any manner, expressly or by
implication, the extent to which respondents maintain and protect the privacy, confidentiality, or
integrity of any personal information collected from or about consumers.

II.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondents and their officers, agents,
representatives, and employees, directly or through any corporation, subsidiary, division,
website, or other device, shall, no later than the date of service of this order, establish and
implement, and thereafter maintain, a comprehensive information security program that is
reasonably designed to protect the security, confidentiality, and integrity of personal information
collected from or about consumers.  Such program, the content and implementation of which
must be fully documented in writing, shall contain administrative, technical, and physical
safeguards appropriate to respondents’ size and complexity, the nature and scope of respondents’
activities, and the sensitivity of the personal information collected from or about consumers,
including:  

A.

B.

C.

D.

E.

the designation of an employee or employees to coordinate and be
accountable for the information security program;  

the identification of material internal and external risks to the security,
confidentiality, and integrity of personal information that could result in
the unauthorized disclosure, misuse, loss, alteration, destruction, or other
compromise of such information, and assessment of the sufficiency of any
safeguards in place to control these risks.  At a minimum, this risk
assessment should include consideration of risks in each area of relevant
operation, including, but not limited to, (1) employee training and
management, (2) information systems, including network and software
design, information processing, storage, transmission, and disposal, and
(3) prevention, detection, and response to attacks, intrusions, or other
systems failure;  

the design and implementation of reasonable safeguards to control the
risks identified through risk assessment, and regular testing or monitoring
of the effectiveness of the safeguards’ key controls, systems, and
procedures;  

the development and use of reasonable steps to retain service providers
capable of appropriately safeguarding personal information they receive
from respondents and requiring service providers by contract to
implement and maintain appropriate safeguards; and 

the evaluation and adjustment of respondents’ information security
program in light of the results of the testing and monitoring required by

Page 3 of  6

subpart C, any material changes to respondents’ operations or business
arrangements, or any other circumstances that respondents know or have
reason to know may have a material impact on the effectiveness of their
information security program. 

III.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, in connection with the online advertising,
marketing, promotion, offering for sale, or sale of any product or service to consumers, in or
affecting commerce, respondents, and their officers, agents, representatives, and employees,
shall obtain initial and biennial assessments and reports (“Assessments”) from a qualified,
objective, independent third-party professional, who uses procedures and standards generally
accepted in the profession.  The reporting period for the Assessments shall cover: (1) the first
one hundred eighty (180) days after service of the order for the initial Assessment; and (2) each
two (2) year period thereafter for ten (10) years after service of the order for the biennial
Assessments.  Each Assessment shall:

A.

B.

C.

D.

set forth the specific administrative, technical, and physical safeguards
that respondents have implemented and maintained during the reporting
period to comply with Part II of this order;

explain how such safeguards are appropriate to respondents’ size and
complexity, the nature and scope of respondents’ activities, and the
sensitivity of the personal information collected from or about consumers;

explain how the safeguards that have been implemented meet or exceed 
the protections required by Part II of this order; and

certify that respondents’ security program is operating with sufficient
effectiveness to provide reasonable assurance that the security,
confidentiality, and integrity of personal information is protected and has
so operated throughout the reporting period.

Each Assessment shall be prepared and completed within sixty (60) days after the end of the
reporting period to which the Assessment applies by: a person qualified as a Certified
Information System Security Professional (CISSP) or as a Certified Information Systems
Auditor (CISA); a person holding Global Information Assurance Certification (GIAC) from the
SysAdmin, Audit, Network, Security (SANS) Institute; or a similarly qualified person or
organization approved by the Associate Director for Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer
Protection, Federal Trade Commission, Washington, D.C. 20580.

Respondents shall provide the initial Assessment to the Associate Director for Enforcement,
Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, Washington, D.C. 20580, within
ten (10) days after the Assessment has been prepared.  All subsequent biennial Assessments shall

Page 4 of  6

be retained by respondents until the order is terminated and provided to the Associate Director of
Enforcement within ten (10) days of request. 

IV.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondents shall maintain and upon request make

available to the Federal Trade Commission for inspection and copying, a print or electronic copy
of:

A.

for a period of three (3) years after the date of preparation of each
Assessment required under Part III of this order, all materials relied upon
to prepare the Assessment, whether prepared by or on behalf of the
respondents, including but not limited to all plans, reports, studies,
reviews, audits, audit trails, policies, training materials, and assessments,
and any other materials relating to respondents’ compliance with Parts II
and III of this order, for the compliance period covered by such
Assessment;  

B.

unless covered by IV.A, for a period of five (5) years from the date of
preparation or dissemination, whichever is later, all other documents
relating to compliance with this order, including but not limited to:

1.

2.

all advertisements and promotional materials containing any
representations covered by this order, with all materials relied
upon in disseminating the representation; and

any documents, whether prepared by or on behalf of respondents,
that call into question respondents’ compliance with this order.

V.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondents shall deliver a copy of this order to all

current and future principals, officers, directors, and managers, and to all current and future
employees, agents, and representatives having responsibilities relating to the subject matter of
this order.  Respondents shall deliver this order to such current personnel within thirty (30) days
after service of this order, and to such future personnel within thirty (30) days after the person
assumes such position or responsibilities.

VI.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondents shall notify the Commission at least

thirty (30) days prior to any change in the corporation(s) that may affect compliance obligations
arising under this order, including, but not limited to: a dissolution, assignment, sale, merger, or
other action that would result in the emergence of a successor corporation; the creation or
dissolution of a subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts or practices subject to this

Page 5 of  6

order; the proposed filing of a bankruptcy petition; or a change in the corporate name or address. 
Provided, however, that, with respect to any proposed change in the corporation(s) about which
respondents learn fewer than thirty (30) days prior to the date such action is to take place,
respondents shall notify the Commission as soon as is practicable after obtaining such
knowledge.  All notices required by this Part shall be sent by certified mail to the Associate
Director, Division of Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission,
Washington, D.C. 20580.

VII.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondents shall, within one hundred eighty (180)

days after service of this order, and at such other times as the Commission may require, file with
the Commission a report, in writing, setting forth in detail the manner and form in which they
have complied with this order.

VIII.

This order will terminate on March 16, 2029, or twenty (20) years from the most recent

date that the United States or the Commission files a complaint (with or without an
accompanying consent decree) in federal court alleging any violation of the order, whichever
comes later; provided, however, that the filing of such a complaint will not affect the duration of:

A.

B.

C.

any Part in this order that terminates in fewer than twenty (20) years;

this order’s application to any respondent that is not named as a defendant in such
complaint; and

this order if such complaint is filed after the order has terminated pursuant to this
Part.

Provided, further, that if such complaint is dismissed or a federal court rules that respondent(s)
did not violate any provision of the order, and the dismissal or ruling is either not appealed or
upheld on appeal, then the order as to such respondent(s) will terminate according to this Part as
though the complaint had never been filed, except that the order will not terminate between the
date such complaint is filed and the later of the deadline for appealing such dismissal or ruling
and the date such dismissal or ruling is upheld on appeal.

By the Commission.

SEAL
ISSUED:   March 16, 2009

Donald S. Clark
Secretary

Page 6 of  6

