UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION

082 3153

COMMISSIONERS:

Jon Leibowitz, Chairman
William E. Kovacic
J. Thomas Rosch
Edith Ramirez
Julie Brill

__________________________________________

In the Matter of

)
)
)
)
)
)
)
__________________________________________)

DAVE & BUSTER’S, INC.
a corporation.

DOCKET NO. C-4291 

DECISION AND ORDER

The Federal Trade Commission having initiated an investigation of certain acts and
practices of the Respondent named in the caption hereof, and the Respondent having been
furnished thereafter with a copy of a draft Complaint that the Bureau of Consumer Protection
proposed to present to the Commission for its consideration and which, if issued by the
Commission, would charge the Respondent with violation of the Federal Trade Commission Act,
15 U.S.C. § 45 et seq;

The Respondent, its attorney, and counsel for the Commission having thereafter executed

an Agreement Containing Consent Order (“Consent Agreement”), an admission by the
Respondent of all the jurisdictional facts set forth in the aforesaid draft Complaint, a statement
that the signing of said Consent Agreement is for settlement purposes only and does not
constitute an admission by Respondent that the law has been violated as alleged in such
Complaint, or that the facts as alleged in such Complaint, other than jurisdictional facts, are true,
and waivers and other provisions as required by the Commission's Rules; and

The Commission having thereafter considered the matter and having determined that it

has reason to believe that the Respondent has violated the said Act, and that a Complaint should
issue stating its charges in that respect, and having thereupon accepted the executed Consent
Agreement and placed such Consent Agreement on the public record for a period of thirty (30)
days for the receipt and consideration of public comments, now in further conformity with the
procedure described in Section 2.34 of its Rules, the Commission hereby issues its Complaint,
makes the following jurisdictional findings and enters the following Order:

1.

2.

Respondent is a Missouri corporation with its principal office or place of business at
2481 Manana Drive, Dallas, Texas 75220.

The Federal Trade Commission has jurisdiction of the subject matter of this proceeding
and of the respondent and this proceeding is in the public interest.

ORDER

DEFINITIONS

For purposes of this Order, the following definitions shall apply:

1.

2.

3.

“Personal information” shall mean individually identifiable information from or about an
individual consumer including, but not limited to:  (a) a first and last name; (b) a home or
other physical address, including street name and name of city or town; (c) an email
address or other online contact information, such as an instant messaging user identifier
or a screen name; (d) a telephone number; (e) a Social Security number; (f) a driver’s
license number; (g) a credit card or debit card account number; (h) a persistent identifier,
such as a customer number held in “cookie” or processor serial number, that is combined
with other available data that identifies an individual consumer; or (i) any information
that is combined with any of (a) through (h) above.

Unless otherwise specified, “respondent” shall mean Dave & Buster’s, Inc., and its
subsidiaries, divisions, and affiliates owned or controlled by Dave & Buster’s, Inc. and
the successors and assigns of Dave & Buster’s, Inc.

“Commerce” shall mean as defined in Section 4 of the Federal Trade Commission Act,
15 U.S.C. § 44.

I.

IT IS ORDERED that respondent, in connection with the advertising, marketing,

promotion, offering for sale, or sale of any product or service, in or affecting commerce, shall,
no later than the date of service of this order, establish and implement, and thereafter maintain, a
comprehensive information security program that is reasonably designed to protect the security,
confidentiality, and integrity of personal information collected from or about consumers.  Such
program, the content and implementation of which must be fully documented in writing, shall
contain administrative, technical, and physical safeguards appropriate to respondent’s size and
complexity, the nature and scope of respondent’s activities, and the sensitivity of the personal
information collected from or about consumers, including:  

A.

B.

the designation of an employee or employees to coordinate and be
accountable for the information security program;

the identification of material internal and external risks to the security,
confidentiality, and integrity of personal information that could result in

2

the unauthorized disclosure, misuse, loss, alteration, destruction, or other
compromise of such information, and assessment of the sufficiency of any
safeguards in place to control these risks.  At a minimum, this risk
assessment should include consideration of risks in each area of relevant
operation, including, but not limited to: (1) employee training and
management; (2) information systems, including network and software
design, information processing, storage, transmission, and disposal; and
(3) prevention, detection, and response to attacks, intrusions, or other
systems failures;

the design and implementation of reasonable safeguards to control the
risks identified through risk assessment and regular testing or monitoring
of the effectiveness of the safeguards’ key controls, systems, and
procedures;

the development and use of reasonable steps to select and retain service
providers capable of appropriately safeguarding personal information they
receive from respondent, and requiring service providers by contract to
implement and maintain appropriate safeguards; and

the evaluation and adjustment of respondent’s information security program in
light of the results of the testing and monitoring required by sub-Part C, any
material changes to respondent’s operations or business arrangements, or any
other circumstances that respondent knows or has reason to know may have a
material impact on the effectiveness of its information security program. 

II.

C.

D.

E.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, in connection with its compliance with Part I of this
order, respondent shall obtain initial and biennial assessments and reports (“Assessments”) from
a qualified, objective, independent third-party professional, who uses procedures and standards
generally accepted in the profession.  The reporting period for the Assessments shall cover: (1)
the first one hundred and eighty (180) days after service of the order for the initial Assessment,
and (2) each two (2) year period thereafter for ten (10) years after service of the order for the
biennial Assessments.  Each Assessment shall:

set forth the specific administrative, technical, and physical safeguards that            

A.
   respondent has implemented and maintained during the reporting period;

B.

C.

explain how such safeguards are appropriate to respondent’s size and complexity,
the nature and scope of respondent’s activities, and the sensitivity of the personal
information collected from or about consumers;

explain how the safeguards that have been implemented meet or exceed the
protections required by the Part I of this order; and

3

  
D.

certify that respondent’s security program is operating with sufficient
effectiveness to provide reasonable assurance that the security, confidentiality,
and integrity of personal information is protected and has so operated throughout
the reporting period.

Each Assessment shall be prepared and completed within sixty (60) days after the end of the
reporting period to which the Assessment applies by a person qualified as a Certified
Information System Security Professional (CISSP) or as a Certified Information Systems
Auditor (CISA); a person holding Global Information Assurance Certification (GIAC) from the
SysAdmin, Audit, Network, Security (SANS) Institute; or a similarly qualified person or
organization approved by the Associate Director for Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer
Protection, Federal Trade Commission, Washington, D.C. 20580.

Respondent shall provide the initial Assessment to the Associate Director for Enforcement,
Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, Washington, D.C. 20580, within
ten (10) days after the Assessment has been prepared.  All subsequent biennial Assessments shall
be retained by respondent until the order is terminated and provided to the Associate Director of
Enforcement within ten (10) days of request.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent shall maintain, and upon request make

available to the Federal Trade Commission for inspection and copying:  

III.

A.

B.

for a period of five (5) years, a print or electronic copy of each document relating
to compliance, including but not limited to documents, prepared by or on behalf
of respondent, that contradict, qualify, or call into question respondent’s
compliance with this order; and

for a period of three (3) years after the date of preparation of each Assessment
required under Part II of this order, all materials relied upon to prepare the
Assessment, whether prepared by or on behalf of the respondent, including but
not limited to all plans, reports, studies, reviews, audits, audit trails, policies,
training materials, and assessments,  and any other materials relating to
respondent’s compliance with Parts I and II of this order, for the compliance
period covered by such Assessment.   

IV.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent shall deliver a copy of this order to all

current and future principals, officers, directors, and managers at corporate headquarters,
regional offices, and at each store having responsibilities relating to the subject matter of this
order.  Respondent shall deliver this order to such current personnel within thirty (30) days after
service of this order, and to such future personnel within thirty (30) days after the person
assumes such position or responsibilities.

4

V.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent shall notify the Commission at least

thirty (30) days prior to any change in the corporation that may affect compliance obligations
arising under this order, including, but not limited to, a dissolution, assignment, sale, merger, or
other action that would result in the emergence of a successor corporation; the creation or
dissolution of a subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts or practices subject to this
order; the proposed filing of a bankruptcy petition; or a change in the corporate name or address. 
Provided, however, that with respect to any proposed change in the corporation about which
respondent learns less than thirty (30) days prior to the date such action is to take place,
respondent shall notify the Commission as soon as is practicable after obtaining such knowledge. 
All notices required by this Part shall be sent by certified mail to the Associate Director,
Division of Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission,
Washington, D.C. 20580.

VI.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent shall, within ninety (90) days after
service of this order, and at such other times as the Federal Trade Commission may require, file
with the Commission a report, in writing, setting forth in detail the manner and form in which it
has complied with this order.

VII.

This order will terminate on May 20, 2030, or twenty (20) years from the most recent

date that the United States or the Federal Trade Commission files a complaint (with or without
an accompanying consent decree) in federal court alleging any violation of the order, whichever
comes later; provided, however, that the filing of such a complaint will not affect the duration of:

A.

B.

C.

any Part in this order that terminates in less than twenty (20) years;

this order’s application to any respondent that is not named as a defendant in such
complaint; and

this order if such complaint is filed after the order has terminated pursuant to this
Part.

5

Provided, further, that if such complaint is dismissed or a federal court rules that respondent did
not violate any provision of the order, and the dismissal or ruling is either not appealed or upheld
on appeal, then the order will terminate according to this Part as though the complaint had never
been filed, except that the order will not terminate between the date such complaint is filed and
the later of the deadline for appealing such dismissal or ruling and the date such dismissal or
ruling is upheld on appeal.

By the Commission, Commissioner Ramirez not participating.

Donald S. Clark
Secretary

SEAL
ISSUED:  May 20, 2010 

6

