UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT 
DISTRICT OF ARIZONA 

~ 

Plaintiff, 

Federal Trade Commission, 

) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
LifeLock, Inc. 
a corporation; Robert J.  Maynard, Jr., 
) 
individually and as an officer of LifeLock,) 
) 
Inc.;  and 
) 
Richard Todd Davis, 
individually and as an officer of 
) 
) 
LifeLock, Inc., 
) 
) 

Defendants. 

Civil No. 

STIPULATED FINAL JUDGMENT AND 
ORDER FOR PERMANENT 
INJUNCTION AND OTHER 
EQUITABLE RELIEF AS TO 
DEFENDANTS LIFELOCK AND DAVIS 

STIPULATED FINAL JUDGMENT AND ORDER FOR PERMANENT INJUNCTION 
AND OTHER EQUITABLE RELIEF AS TO DEFENDANTS LIFELOCK AND DAVIS 

Plaintiff, the Federal Trade Commission ("FTC" or "Commission"), has concurrently 

filed its Complaint, which alleges that Defendants LifeLock, Inc. ("LifeLock"), Robert 1. 

Maynard, Jr.  ("Maynard"), and Richard Todd Davis ("Davis") have engaged in violations of 

Section 5 of the FTC Act,  15  U.S.C.  § 45. The Commission and Defendants LifeLock and Davis 

to 

Other Equitable 

to 

matters in 

this action without trial or adjudication of any issue of law or fact herein and without Settling 

Defendants admitting the truth of, or liability for, any of the matters alleged in the Complaint. 

Settling Defendants have waived service of the Summons and Complaint. 

Page  1 of 22 

THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, ADJUDGED, AND DECREED as 

follows: 

FINDINGS 

1. 

This Court has jurisdiction over the subject matter of this case and over Settling 

Defendants LifeLock and Davis. 

2. 

Venue in this district is proper under 28 U.S.c. § 1391(b) and (c), and 15  U.S.C. 

§ 53(b). 

3. 

The acts and practices of Settling Defendants are in or affecting commerce, as 

"commerce" is defined in Section 4 of the Federal Trade Commission Act,  15  U.S.C. § 44. 

4. 

The Complaint states claims upon which relief may be granted against Settling 

Defendants under Sections 5 and 13(b) of the FTC Act,  15  U.S.C.  §§  45  and 53(b). 

5. 

Settling Defendants make no admission to the allegations in the Complaint, other 

than the jurisdictional facts. 

6. 

Settling Defendants waive:  (a) all rights to seek appellate review or otherwise 

challenge or contest the validity of this Order; (b) any claim they may have against the 

Commission, its employees, representatives, or agents that relate to the matter stated herein; (c) 

all claims under the Equal Justice Act, 28 U. S. C.  §  2412, as amended by Pub. 

104-121,  110 

7. 

Defendants 

PTnpn"n  into this 

and without coercion, and 

they acknowledge that they have read the provisions of this Order and are prepared to abide by 

them. 

8. 

Entry of this Order is in the public interest. 

2 of 

9. 

LJHv.L.AJv.n. is concurrently Clcn'PPllner to orders 

related complaints brought 

by the Attorneys 

Alaska,  r-li.'LVUU,  California, Delaware, Florida, 

Hawaii, Idaho,  HH.UV'''',  U1\.UCU1U,  Iowa, Kentucky, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, 

Missouri, Mississippi, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, 

Mexico, New York, North Carolina, 

North Dakota, Ohio, Oregon, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, 

Vermont, Virginia, Washington, and West Virginia (the "Participating States").  These state 

orders will require LifeLock to pay $1  million to the Office of the Attorney General of Illinois 

for distribution among the Participating States. 

DEFINITIONS 

"Individual Defendant" shall mean Davis. 

"Corporate Defendant" shall mean LifeLock, Inc. and its successors and assigns. 

"Settling Defendants" shall mean Individual Defendant and Corporate Defendant, 

1. 

2. 

3. 

individually, collectively, or in any combination. 

4. 

"Personal information" shall mean individually identifiable information from or 

about an individual consumer including, but not limited to:  (a) a first and last name; (b) a home 

or other physical address, including street name and name of city or town; (c) an email address 

or other online contact information, such as an instant messaging user identifier or a screen 

on 

credit or debit 

the ABA HJlnuu:. number, account number, and/or check number; (h) a driver's U,"".Hk>v,  military, 

or state identification number; (i) a persistent identifier, such as a customer number held in a 

"cookie" or Df()CeSS()r serial number, that is combined with other available data that identifies an 

3 of 

individual consumer; or (j) any information that is combined with any of (a) through (i) above. 

5. 

"Subscribing Consumer" shall mean any person or entity that paid for Corporate 

Defendant's service at any time between April  1, 2005 and March 31, 2009. 

ORDER 

I.  PROHIBITED BUSINESS ACTIVITIES 

IT IS ORDERED that Settling Defendants and their officers, agents, servants, and 

employees and all persons in active concert or participation with any of them, who receive actual 

notice of this Order by personal service or otherwise, whether acting directly or through any sole 

proprietorship, partnership, limited liability company, corporation, subsidiary, branch, division, 

or other entity, are hereby permanently restrained and enjoined from: 

A. 

in connection with the advertising, distributing, promoting, offering for sale, or 

sale of any product, service, or program designed for the purpose of preventing, mitigating, or 

recovering from any form of identity theft as defined in 18 U.S.C.  § 1028, misrepresenting in 

any manner, expressly or by implication: 

1. 

that such product, service, or program provides complete protection 

against all forms of identity theft by making customers' personal 

information useless to identity thieves; 

or nr(.crrOl1"n  COll1S1am:ii  monitors 

on each 

of its customers' consumer reports; 

4. 

that such product, service, or program ensures that a customer will always 

receive a phone call from a potential creditor before a new credit account 

4 of 

is  opened in the customer's name; 

5. 

the means, methods, procedures, effects, effectiveness, coverage, or scope 

6. 

7. 

of such product, service, or program; 

the risk of identity theft to consumers; 

whether a particular consumer has become or is likely to become a victim 

of identity theft; andlor 

8. 

the opinions, beliefs, findings, or experiences of an individual or group of 

consumers related in any way to any such product, service, or program. 

Such products, services, or programs include, but are not limited to, the placement of fraud alerts 

on behalf of consumers, searching the internet for consumers' personal data, monitoring 

commercial transactions for consumers' personal data, identity theft protection for minors, and 

guarantees of any such products, services, or programs. 

B. 

misrepresenting in any manner, expressly or by implication, the manner or extent 

to which they maintain and protect the privacy, confidentiality, or security of any personal 

information collected from or about consumers. 

II.  INFORMATION SECURITY PROGRAM 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Corporate Defendant and any business entity that 

a 

information 

program that is 

and 

designed to protect 

security, confidentiality, and integrity of personal information collected 

from or about consumers.  Such program, the content and implementation of which must be fully 

documented in writing, shall contain administrative, technical, and physical safeguards 

Page 5 of 

appropriate to the entity's 

and complexity, the nature and scope of the entity's activities, and 

the sensitivity of the personal information collected from or about consumers, including: 

A. 

the designation of an employee or employees to coordinate and be accountable for 

the information security program; 

B. 

the identification of material internal and external risks to the security, 

confidentiality, and integrity of personal information that could result in the unauthorized 

disclosure, misuse, loss, alteration, destruction, or other compromise of such information, and 

assessment of the sufficiency of any safeguards in place to control these risks.  At a minimum, 

this risk assessment should include consideration of risks in each area of relevant operation, 

including, but not limited to, (1) employee training and management, (2) information systems, 

including network and software design, information processing, storage, transmission, and 

disposal, and (3) prevention, detection, and response to attacks, intrusions, or other systems 

failure; 

C. 

the design and implementation of reasonable safeguards to control the risks 

identified through risk assessment, and regular testing or monitoring of the effectiveness of the 

safeguards' key controls, system, and procedures; 

D. 

the development and use of reasonable steps to retain service providers capable of 

E. 

and 

program in light of the results of the  '''''''HULl'',  and monitoring required by ~UDSt~Ct]lOn C 

Section, any material changes to Settling Defendants' operations or  Yen",-,,,,,  arrangements, or 

any other circumstances that Settling Defendants know or 

reason to know may have a 

6 of 

material impact on the effectiveness of their information security program. 

III.  BIENNIAL ASSESSMENT REQUIREMENTS 

A. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Corporate Defendant and any business entity 

that Individual Defendant controls, directly or indirectly, which collects, maintains, or stores 

personal information from our about consumers, shall, in connection with their compliance with 

Section II of this Order, obtain initial and biennial assessments and reports ("Assessments") 

from a qualified, objective, independent third-party professional, who uses procedures and 

standards generally accepted in the profession.  The reporting period for the Assessments shall 

cover:  (1) the first one hundred eighty days after service of the Order for the initial Assessment; 

and (2) each two (2) year period thereafter for twenty (20) years after service of the Order for the 

biennial Assessments.  Each Assessment shall: 

1. 

set forth the specific administrative, technical, and physical safeguards 

implemented and maintained during the reporting period; 

2. 

explain how such safeguards are appropriate to Settling Defendants' size 

and complexity, the nature and scope of Settling Defendants' activities, and the sensitivity of the 

personal information collected from or about consumers; 

3. 

explain how the safeguards that have been implemented meet or exceed 

sufficient 

\lpn,,,,,,,  to provide reasonable assurance that the security, confidentiality, and 

integrity of personal information is protected and has so operated throughout the reporting 

IS 

with 

period. 

B. 

Each Assessment shall be prepared and completed within sixty (60) days after the 

Page 7 of 

end of the reporting period to which the Assessment applies by a person qualified as a Certified 

Information System Security Professional (CISSP) or as a Certified Information Systems 

Auditor (CISA); a person holding Global Information Assurance Certification (GIAC) from the 

SysAdmin, Audit, Network, Security (SANS) Institute; or a similarly qualified person or 

organization approved by the Associate Director for Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer 

Protection, Federal Trade Commission, Washington, D.C.  20580. 

C. 

Settling Defendants shall provide the initial Assessment within ten (10) days after 

the Assessment has been prepared.  All subsequent biennial Assessments shall be retained by 

Settling Defendants until the Order is terminated and provided to the Commission within ten 

(10) days of request. 

IV.  CONSUMER REDRESS 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that: 

A. 

Judgment in the amount of $35,000,000.00 is hereby entered jointly and severally 

against Settling Defendants.  Full payment for the foregoing judgment is suspended, subject to 

the following conditions: 

1. 

Corporate Defendant shall pay eleven million dollars ($11,000,000), 

which Corporate Defendant represents their undersigned counsel holds in 

no 

payment shall be made 

seven 

Order 

electronic fund 

accordance with instructions previously 

provided by a representative of the Commission. 

2. 

Individual Defendant shall pay ten thousand dollars ($10,000), which 

Individual Defendant represents their undersigned counsel holds in escrow 

Page 8 of 

for no purpose other than payment to the Commission.  Such payment 

shall be made within seven days of entry of this Order by electronic fund 

transfer in accordance with instructions previously provided by a 

representative of the Commission. 

B. 

In the event of any default in payment, which default continues for ten (10) days 

beyond the due date of payment, the entire unpaid amount, together with interest, as computed 

pursuant to 28  U.S.C.  § 1961  from the date of default to  the date of payment, shall immediately 

become due and payable. 

C. 

All funds paid to the FTC pursuant to the Order shall be deposited into an account 

administered by the Commission or its agent to be used for equitable relief which will include, 

but not be limited to, consumer redress, and any attendant expenses for the administration of 

such equitable relief.  Acceptance of redress from the FTC shall constitute an acknowledgment 

by the consumer that, to the extent that the consumer makes a subsequent claim, the defendant is 

entitled to deduct the amount of the redress received from the FTC from any other or additional 

redress ordered.  Upon completion of consumer redress,  Commission shall supply to  Defendants 

the names of consumers that received redress and the amount received.  In the event that funds 

remain after redress is attempted, the Commission may apply any remaining funds for such other 

related to 

equitable relief shall be deposited to the 

T reasur.y as 

Settling 

Defendants shall have no right to challenge the Commission's choice of remedies under this 

Section.  Settling Defendants shall have no right to contest the manner of distribution chosen by 

the Commission. 

Page 9 of 

D. 

Settling Defendants relinquish all dominion, control, and title to the funds paid to 

the fullest extent permitted by law.  Settling Defendants shall make no claim to or demand return 

of the funds,  directly or indirectly, through counselor otherwise. 

E. 

Settling Defendants agree that the facts as alleged in the Complaint filed  in this 

action shall be taken as true without further proof in any bankruptcy case or subsequent civil 

litigation pursued by the Commission to enforce its rights to any payment or money judgment 

pursuant to this Order, including but not limited to a nondischargeability complaint in any 

bankruptcy case.  Settling Defendants further stipulate and agree that the facts alleged in the 

Complaint establish all elements necessary to sustain an action pursuant to, and that this Order 

shall have collateral estoppel effect for purposes of, Section 523(a)(2)(A) of the Bankruptcy 

Code,  11  U.S.C.  § 523(a)(2)(A). 

F. 

Settling Defendants shall, within ten (10) days of the date of entry of this Order, 

provide to the Commission, an encrypted file containing, in Access database format,  for each 

Subscribing Consumer:  (1) the consumer's name; (2) most recent known mailing address, e 

mail address, and telephone number; (3) the beginning and end date for the consumer's 

subscription to the service; and (4) the monthly rate paid by the consumer.  The database shall be 

formatted with a separate field for each piece of information requested, and, for the mailing 

faith with 

or 

to 

obtain and provide 

additional information required to administer consumer  pprl"?>,,,·  and take 

all reasonable steps to ensure that all data provided is accurate, up-to-date, and in a secure and 

useable format.  In the event the Defendants fail  to provide data that is accurate, up-to-date, and 

in a secure and useable format,  the Commission may apply any remaining funds for such other 

Page  10 of 

equitable relief (including consumer information remedies) as it determines to be reasonably 

related to Settling Defendants' practices alleged in the Complaint.  Any funds not used for such 

equitable relief shall be deposited to the United States Treasury as disgorgement. 

V.  RIGHT TO REOPEN AS TO MONETARY JUDGMENT 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Commission's agreement to this Order is 

expressly premised upon the truthfulness, accuracy and completeness of Settling Defendants' 

sworn financial statements and supporting documents submitted to the Commission, which 

include material information upon which the Commission relied in negotiating and agreeing to 

this Order.  If, upon motion by the Commission, this Court finds that any Settling Defendant has 

failed to disclose any material asset, or materially misstated the value of any asset in the 

financial statements and information submitted to the Commission, or has made any other 

material misstatement or omission in the financial  statements and related documents described 

above, then this Order shall be reopened and suspension of the judgment against that particular 

Settling Defendant shall be lifted for the purpose of requiring payment in the full amount of the 

judgment ($35,000,000).  Provided, however, that in all other respects this Order shall remain in 

full force and effect, unless otherwise ordered by the Court. 

VI.  COMPLIANCE MONITORING 

IT  IS  FURTHER ORDERED 

compliance with 

Order, 

mvesngarmg the 

Defendant's financial statements upon which the Commission's agreement to this Order is 

expressly premised: 

A. 

Within ten (l0) days of receipt of wTitten notice from a representative of the 

Commission, Settling Defendants each shall submit additional written reports, which are true 

Page  11  of 

and accurate and sworn to under penalty of perjury; produce documents for inspection and 

copying; appear for deposition; and provide entry during normal business hours to any business 

location in each Settling Defendant's possession or direct or indirect control to inspect the 

business operation; 

B. 

In addition, the Commission is authorized to use all  other lawful means, including 

but not limited to: 

1. 

obtaining discovery from any person, without further leave of court, using 

the procedures prescribed by Fed. R.  Civ. P.  30, 31, 33, 34, 36,45 and 69; 

2. 

posing as consumers and suppliers to Settling Defendants, their 

employees, or any other entity managed or controlled in whole or in part by any Settling 

Defendant, without the necessity of identification of prior notice; and 

C. 

Settling Defendants each shall permit representatives of the Commission to 

interview any employer, consultant, independent contractor, representative, agent, or employee 

who has agreed to such an interview, relating in any way to any conduct subject to this Order. 

The person interviewed may have counsel present. 

Provided however, that nothing in this Order shall limit the Commission's lawful use of 

compulsory process, pursuant to Sections 9 and 20 of the FTC Act,  15  U.S.C.  § § 49, 57b-L to 

or 

H.A .. 'HLJL1",  commerce 

the 

15  U 

to 

§ 45(a)(1». 

VII.  COMPLIANCE REPORTING 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, in order that compliance with the provisions of this 

Order may be monitored: 

Page  12 of 

A. 

F or a period of five (5) years from the date of entry of this Order for Corporate 

Defendant and a period of three (3) years from the date of entry of this Order for Individual 

Defendant, 

1. 

Individual Defendant shall notifY the Commission of the following: 

a. 

Any changes in Individual Defendant's residence, mailing 

addresses, and telephone numbers, within ten (10) days of the date 

of the change; 

b. 

Any changes in Individual Defendant's employment status 

(including self-employment), and any change in Individual 

Defendant's ownership in any business entity, within ten (10) days 

of the date of such change.  Such notice shall include the name and 

address of each business that Individual Defendant is affiliated 

with, employed by, creates or forms,  or performs services for;  a 

detailed description of the nature of the business; and a detailed 

description of Individual Defendant's duties and responsibilities in 

connection with the business or employment; and 

c. 

Any changes in Individual Defendant's name or use of any aliases 

Defendants shall notifY the Commission of 

In 

structure of Corporate Defendant or 

that any Defendant directly or indirectly 

controls, or has ownership interest in, that may affect compliance obligations under this Order, 

including but not limited to:  incorporation or other organization; a dissolution, assignment, sale, 

merger, or other action; the creation or dissolution of a subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that 

Page  13  of 22 

engages in any acts or practices subject to this Order; or a change in the business name or 

address, at least thirty (30) days prior to such change, provided that, with respect to any proposed 

change in the business entity which a Defendant learns less than thirty (30) days prior to the date 

such action is to take place, such Defendant shall notify the Commission as soon as practicable 

after obtaining such knowledge. 

B. 

One hundred eighty (180) days after the date of entry of this Order and annually 

thereafter for a period of five (5) years for Corporate Defendant and three (3) years for 

Individual Defendant, Settling Defendants each shall provide a written report to the FTC, which 

is true and accurate and sworn to under penalty of perjury, setting forth in detail the manner and 

form in which they have complied and are complying with this Order.  This report shall include, 

but not be limited to: 

1. 

For Individual Defendant: 

a. 

Individual Defendant's then-current residence address, mailing 

address, and telephone numbers; 

b. 

Individual Defendant's then-current employment status (including 

self-employment), including the name, addresses, and telephone 

numbers of each business that Individual Defendant is affiliated 

nature 

and a U"'LUU .... ,U 

Individual Defendant's duties and responsibilities in connection 

with the business or employment; and 

c. 

Any other changes required to be reported under Subsection A of 

this Section. 

Page  14 of 22 

2. 

For all  Settling Defendants: 

a. 

A copy of each acknowledgment of receipt of this Order, obtained 

pursuant to the Section titled "Distribution of Order;" 

b. 

Any other changes required to be reported under Subsection A of 

this Section. 

C. 

Each Defendant shall notifY the Commission of the filing of a bankruptcy petition 

by such Defendant within fifteen (15) days of filing. 

D. 

For the purposes of this Order, Settling Defendants shall, unless otherwise 

directed by the Commission's authorized representatives, send by overnight courier all reports 

and notifications required by this Order to the Commission, to the following address: 

Associate Director for Enforcement 
Federal Trade Commission 
600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Room NJ-2122 
Washington, D.C.  20580 
RE:  FTC v.  LifeLock, Inc. 

Provided that, in lieu of overnight courier, Settling Defendants may send such reports or 

notifications by first-class mail, but only if Settling Defendants contemporaneously send an 

electronic version of such report or notification to the Commission at:  DEBrief@ftc.gov. 

E. 

For purposes of the compliance reporting and monitoring required by this Order, 

VIII.  RECORD KEEPING PROVISIONS 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that 

offIcers, corporations, and those persons in active concert or participation with them who receive 

actual notice of this Order by personal service or otherwise, in connection with, are hereby 

restrained and enjoined from  failing to  create and retain the following records for the following 

Page  15  of 

periods: 

A. 

For a period of eight (8) 

date of entry of this Order for Corporate 

Detendant and six (6) years from 

date of entry of this Order for Individual Defendant, the 

following records in connection with the sale or provision of products or 

related to 

identity theft: 

1. 

Accounting records that reflect the cost of goods or services sold, 

revenues generated, and the disbursement of such revenues; 

2. 

Personnel records accurately reflecting:  the name, address, and telephone 

number of each person employed in any capacity by such business, 

including as an independent contractor; that person's job title or position; 

the date upon which the person commenced work; and the date and reason 

for the person's termination, if applicable; 

3. 

Customer files containing the names, addresses, phone numbers, dollar 

amounts paid, quantity of items or services purchased, and description of 

items or services purchased, to the extent such information is obtained in 

the ordinary course of business; 

4. 

Complaints and refund requests (whether received directly, indirectly, or 

all 

materials; 

or 

6. 

Any documents, whether prepared by or on behalf of Settling Defendants, 

that contradict, qualify, or call into question Settling Defendants' 

16 of 22 

compliance with Sections I,  II,  and III  of this Order; and 

7. 

All records and documents necessary to demonstrate full  compliance with 

each provision of this Order, including but not limited to, copies of 

acknowledgments of receipt of this Order required by the Sections titled 

"Distribution of Order" and "Acknowledgment of Receipt of Order" and 

all reports submitted to the FTC pursuant to the Section titled 

"Compliance Reporting;" 

B. 

For a period of three (3) years after the date of preparation of each Assessment 

required under the Section titled "Biennial Assessment Requirements":  All materials relied 

upon to prepare the Assessment, whether prepared by or on behalf of any Settling Defendant, 

including but not limited to all plans, reports, studies, reviews, audits, audit trails, policies, 

training materials, and assessments, and any other materials relating to Settling Defendants' 

compliance with the Section titled "Biennial Assessment Requirements." 

IX.  DISTRIBUTION OF ORDER 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that for a period of five  (5) years from the date of entry 

of this Order for Corporate Defendant and three (3) years from the date of entry of this Order for 

Individual Defendant, Settling Defendants shall deliver copies of the Order as directed below: 

(l) all of 

representatives who _",..,~:-,_ in conduct related to 

subject matter of the Order; and 

business entity resulting from any change in structure set forth in Subsection 

of the Section ' 

titled "Compliance Reporting."  For current personnel, delivery shall  be within five (5) days of 

service of this Order upon such Defendant.  For new personnel, delivery shall occur prior to 

Page  17 of 

them assuming their responsibilities.  For any business entity resulting from any change in 

structure set forth in Subsection A.2 of the Section titled "Compliance Reporting," delivery shall 

be at least ten (10) days prior to the change in structure. 

B. 

Individual Defendant as Control Person:  For any business that Individual 

Defendant controls, directly or indirectly, or in which Individual Defendant has a majority 

ownership interest, Individual Defendant must deliver a copy of this Order to (1) all principals, 

officers, directors, and managers of that business; (2) all employees, agents, and representatives 

of that business who engage in conduct related to the subject matter of the Order; and (3) any 

business entity resulting from any change in structure set forth in Subsection A.2 of the Section 

titled "Compliance Reporting."  For current personnel, delivery shall be within five  (5) days of 

service of this Order upon such Defendant.  For new personnel, delivery shall occur prior to 

them assuming their responsibilities.  For any business entity resulting from any change in 

structure set forth in Subsection A.2 of the Section titled "Compliance Reporting," delivery shall 

be at least ten (10) days prior to the change in structure. 

C. 

Individual Defendant as employee or non-control person:  For any business where 

Individual Defendant is not a controlling person of a business but otherwise engages in conduct 

related to the subject matter of this Order, such Individual Defendant must deliver a copy of this 

D. 

'-"'.laUle:>  must secure a 

dated statement "0'/""/"''', 

receipt of the Order, within 

(30) days of delivery, from all persons 

a copy of the 

Order pursuant to this Section. 

X.  ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF RECEIPT OF THIS ORDER 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that each Defendant, within five (5) business days of 

Page  180f 

receipt of this Order as entered by the Court, must submit to the Commission a truthful sworn 

statement acknowledging receipt of this Order. 

XI.  COOPERATION WITH COMMISSION COUNSEL 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Settling Defendants shall, in connection with this 

action or any subsequent investigation related to or associated with the transaction or the 

occurrences that are the subject of the Complaint, cooperate in good faith with the Commission 

and appear at such places and times as the Commission shall reasonably request, after written 

notice, for interviews, conferences, pretrial discovery, review of documents, and for such other 

matters as may be reasonably requested by the Commission.  If requested in writing by the 

Commission, the Settling Defendants shall appear or cause their officers, employees, 

representatives or agents to appear, and provide truthful testimony in any trial, deposition, or 

other proceeding related to or associated with the transactions or the occurrences that are the 

subject of the Complaint, without the service of a subpoena. 

XII.  RETENTION OF JURISDICTION 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that this Court shall retain jurisdiction of this matter for 

purposes of construction, modification, and enforcement of this Order. 

XIII.  COSTS AND ATTORNEYS' FEES 

IT IS  <FURTHER ORDERED 

Page  19 of 

XIV.  NOTICE OF ENTRY OF ORDER 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that entry in the docket of this Order by the Clerk of 

Court shall constitute notice to Settling Defendants of the tenus and conditions of this Order, and 

that Settling Defendants waive all rights to contest in any future proceeding whether Settling 

Defendants were properly served with this Order. 

The parties hereby stipulate to the entry of the foregoing Order, which shall constitute a 

final  Order in this action. 

IT IS SO ORDERED: 

Page 20 of 

STIPULATED AND AGREED TO BY: 

FOR DEFENDANT LIFELOCK: 

Richard Todd Davis 
Chicf Executive Officer 
LifeLock, Inc. 

--~--~~~~~-~~----~ 

Gr. 
drev~Berg 

J /J.J/IO 

Greenberg Traurig, LLP 
Counsel for LifeLock. Inc. 
2101  L Street, N.W. 
Suite 1000 
Washington, D.C. 20037 
(202) 331·3181 
berga@gtlaw.com 

FOR DEFENDANT RICHARD TODD DA VIS~ 

An  e~Berg' 
Greenberg Traurig, LLP 
Counsel for Richard Todd Davis 
2101  L Street, N.W. 
Suite 1000 
Washington, D.C. 20037 
(202) 331-3181 
berga@gdaw.com 

Page 21  of 22 

FOR PLAINTIFF FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION 

Willard K.  Tom 
General Counsel 

Maneesha Mithal 
Associate Director 
Division of Privacy and Identity Protection 

Burke Kappler 
Federal Trade Commission 
600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW 
Mail Stop NJ-8122 
Washington, DC 20580 
(202) 326-3224 (general) 
(202) 326-2773 (Lincicum) 
(202) 326-3768 (facsimile) 
dlincicum@ftc.gov 

Page 

of 

