UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION

102 3160

COMMISSIONERS:

Jon Leibowitz, Chairman
William E. Kovacic
J. Thomas Rosch
Edith Ramirez
Julie Brill

In the Matter of

)
)
)
)
CERIDIAN CORPORATION,
a corporation.
)
____________________________________)

DOCKET NO. C-4325

DECISION AND ORDER

The Federal Trade Commission having initiated an investigation of certain acts and
practices of the Respondent named in the caption hereof, and the Respondent having been
furnished thereafter with a copy of a draft Complaint that the Bureau of Consumer Protection
proposed to present to the Commission for its consideration and which, if issued by the
Commission, would charge the Respondent with violation of the Federal Trade Commission Act,
15 U.S.C. § 45 et seq;

The Respondent, its attorney, and counsel for the Commission having thereafter executed

an Agreement Containing Consent Order (“Consent Agreement”), an admission by the
Respondent of all the jurisdictional facts set forth in the aforesaid draft Complaint, a statement
that the signing of said Consent Agreement is for settlement purposes only and does not
constitute an admission by Respondent that the law has been violated as alleged in such
Complaint, or that the facts as alleged in such Complaint, other than jurisdictional facts, are true,
and waivers and other provisions as required by the Commission's Rules; and

The Commission having thereafter considered the matter and having determined that it

has reason to believe that the Respondent has violated the said Act, and that a Complaint should
issue stating its charges in that respect, and having thereupon accepted the executed Consent
Agreement and placed such Consent Agreement on the public record for a period of thirty (30)
days for the receipt and consideration of public comments, now in further conformity with the
procedure described in Commission Rule 2.34, 16 C.F.R. § 2.34, the Commission hereby issues
its Complaint, makes the following jurisdictional findings and enters the following Order:

-1-

                                                                        
1.

2

Respondent Ceridian Corporation is a Delaware corporation with its principal office or
place of business at 3311 East Old Shakopee Road, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55425.

The Federal Trade Commission has jurisdiction of the subject matter of this proceeding
and of the Respondent, and the proceeding is in the public interest.

ORDER

DEFINITIONS

For purposes of this Order, the following definitions shall apply:

1.

2.

3.

“Personally identifiable information” or “personal information” shall mean individually
identifiable information from or about an individual consumer including, but not limited
to:  (a) a first and last name; (b) a home or other physical address, including street name
and name of city or town; (c) an email address or other online contact information, such
as an instant messaging user identifier or a screen name; (d) a telephone number; (e) a
Social Security number; (f) a driver’s license or other state-issued identification number;
(g) a financial institution account number; (h) credit or debit card information, including
card number, expiration date, and security code; (i) a persistent identifier, such as a
customer number held in a “cookie” or processor serial number, that is combined with
other available data that identifies an individual consumer; or (j) any information that is
combined with any of (a) through (i) above.  For the purpose of this provision, a
“consumer” shall mean any person, including, but not limited to, any user of
respondent’s services; any employee of respondent, or any individual seeking to become
an employee, where “employee” shall mean an agent, servant, salesperson, associate,
independent contractor, or other person directly or indirectly under the control of
respondent.

Unless otherwise specified, “respondent” shall mean Ceridian and its subsidiaries,
divisions, successors and assigns, except that no provision of this Order shall apply to
any foreign entity, to the extent that its conduct does not fall within the Commission’s
jurisdiction. 

“Commerce” shall mean as defined in Section 4 of the Federal Trade Commission Act,
15 U.S.C. § 44.

I.

IT IS ORDERED that respondent and its officers, agents, representatives, and
employees, directly or through any corporation, subsidiary, division, website, or other device,
shall not misrepresent in any manner, expressly or by implication, the extent to which
respondent maintains and protects the privacy, confidentiality, or integrity of any personal
information collected from or about consumers.

-2-

II.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent and its officers, agents, representatives,

and employees, directly or through any corporation, subsidiary, division, website, or other
device, shall, no later than the date of service of this order, establish and implement, and
thereafter maintain, a comprehensive information security program that is reasonably designed
to protect the security, confidentiality, and integrity of personal information collected from or
about consumers.  Such program, the content and implementation of which must be fully
documented in writing, shall contain administrative, technical, and physical safeguards
appropriate to respondent’s size and complexity, the nature and scope of respondent’s activities,
and the sensitivity of the personal information collected from or about consumers, including:  

A.

B.

C.

D.

E.

the designation of an employee or employees to coordinate and be
accountable for the information security program;  

the identification of material internal and external risks to the security,
confidentiality, and integrity of personal information that could result in
the unauthorized disclosure, misuse, loss, alteration, destruction, or other
compromise of such information, and assessment of the sufficiency of any
safeguards in place to control these risks.  At a minimum, this risk
assessment should include consideration of risks in each area of relevant
operation, including, but not limited to, (1) employee training and
management, (2) information systems, including network and software
design, information processing, storage, transmission, and disposal, and
(3) prevention, detection, and response to attacks, intrusions, or other
systems failure;  

the design and implementation of reasonable safeguards to control the
risks identified through risk assessment, and regular testing or monitoring
of the effectiveness of the safeguards’ key controls, systems, and
procedures;  

the development and use of reasonable steps to select and retain service
providers capable of appropriately safeguarding personal information they
receive from respondent and requiring service providers by contract to
implement and maintain appropriate safeguards; and 

the evaluation and adjustment of respondent’s information security
program in light of the results of the testing and monitoring required by
subpart C, any material changes to respondent’s operations or business
arrangements, or any other circumstances that respondent knows or has
reason to know may have a material impact on the effectiveness of its
information security program.

-3-

III.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, in connection with its compliance with Part II of this
order, respondent shall obtain initial and biennial assessments and reports (“Assessments”) from
a qualified, objective, independent third-party professional, who uses procedures and standards
generally accepted in the profession; provided, however, that this Part shall not apply to
Comdata Network Inc. or Ceridian Stored Value Solutions, Inc. to the extent that they do not
advertise, market, promote, offer for sale, or sell any product or service relating to payroll, taxes,
or human resources.  Provided further that this Part shall not apply to payment cards provided to
employers by Comdata Network Inc. that are not linked to accounts maintained by individual
employees.  Professionals qualified to prepare such Assessments shall be:  a person qualified as
a Certified Information System Security Professional (CISSP) or as a Certified Information
Systems Auditor (CISA); a person holding Global Information Assurance Certification (GIAC)
from the SysAdmin, Audit, Network, Security (SANS) Institute; or a similarly qualified person
or organization approved by the Associate Director for Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer
Protection, Federal Trade Commission, Washington, D.C. 20580.  The reporting period for the
Assessments shall cover:  (1) the first one hundred eighty (180) days after service of the order
for the initial Assessment; and (2) each two (2) year period thereafter for twenty (20) years after
service of the order for the biennial Assessments.  Each Assessment shall:

A.

B.

C.

D.

set forth the specific administrative, technical, and physical safeguards
that respondent has implemented and maintained during the reporting
period;

explain how such safeguards are appropriate to respondent’s size and
complexity, the nature and scope of respondent’s activities, and the
sensitivity of the personal information collected from or about consumers;

explain how the safeguards that have been implemented meet or exceed 
the protections required by Part II of this order; and

certify that respondent’s security program is operating with sufficient
effectiveness to provide reasonable assurance that the security,
confidentiality, and integrity of personal information is protected and has
so operated throughout the reporting period.

Each Assessment shall be prepared and completed within sixty (60) days after the end of the
reporting period to which the Assessment applies.  Respondent shall provide the initial
Assessment to the Associate Director for Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal
Trade Commission, Washington, D.C. 20580, within ten (10) days after the Assessment has been
prepared.  All subsequent biennial Assessments shall be retained by respondent until the order is
terminated and provided to the Associate Director of Enforcement within ten (10) days of
request.  Unless otherwise directed by a representative of the Commission, the initial
Assessment, and any subsequent Assessments requested, shall be sent by overnight courier (not
the U.S. Postal Service) to the Associate Director of Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer

-4-

Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, D.C.
20580, with the subject line In the matter of Ceridian Corporation, FTC File No.1023160. 
Provided, however, that in lieu of overnight courier, notices may be sent by first-class mail, but
only if an electronic version of any such notice is contemporaneously sent to the Commission at
Debrief@ftc.gov.

IV.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent shall maintain and upon request make

available to the Federal Trade Commission for inspection and copying, a print or electronic copy
of:

A.

B.

for a period of three (3) years after the date of preparation of each
Assessment required under Part III of this order, all materials relied upon
to prepare the Assessment, whether prepared by or on behalf of the
respondent, including but not limited to all plans, reports, studies, reviews,
audits, audit trails, policies, training materials, and assessments, and any
other materials relating to respondent’s compliance with Parts II and III of
this order, for the compliance period covered by such Assessment;  

unless covered by IV.A, for a period of five (5) years from the date of
preparation or dissemination, whichever is later, all other documents
relating to compliance with this order, including but not limited to:

1.

2.

all advertisements and promotional materials containing any
representations covered by this order, as well as all materials used
or relied upon in making or disseminating the representation; and

any documents, whether prepared by or on behalf of respondent,
that contradict, qualify, or call into question respondent’s
compliance with this order.

V.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent shall deliver a copy of this order to all
current and future subsidiaries, current and future principals, officers, directors, and managers,
and to all current and future employees, agents, and representatives having responsibilities
relating to the subject matter of this order.  Respondent shall deliver this order to such current
subsidiaries and personnel within thirty (30) days after service of this order, and to such future
subsidiaries and personnel within thirty (30) days after the person assumes such position or
responsibilities.

-5-

VI. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent shall notify the Commission at least

thirty (30) days prior to any change in the corporation(s) that may affect compliance obligations
arising under this order, including, but not limited to: a dissolution, assignment, sale, merger, or
other action that would result in the emergence of a successor corporation; the creation or
dissolution of a subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts or practices subject to this
order; the proposed filing of a bankruptcy petition; or a change in the corporate name or address. 
Provided, however, that, with respect to any proposed change in the corporation(s) about which
respondent learns fewer than thirty (30) days prior to the date such action is to take place,
respondent shall notify the Commission as soon as is practicable after obtaining such knowledge. 
Unless otherwise directed by a representative of the Commission, all notices required by this
Part shall be sent by overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal Service) to the Associate Director of
Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania
Avenue NW, Washington, D.C. 20580, with the subject line In the matter of Ceridian
Corporation, FTC File No.1023160.  Provided, however, that in lieu of overnight courier,
notices may be sent by first-class mail, but only if an electronic version of any such notice is
contemporaneously sent to the Commission at Debrief@ftc.gov.

VII.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent within sixty (60) days after the date of

service of this order, shall file with the Commission a true and accurate report, in writing, setting
forth in detail the manner and form of its compliance with this order.  Within ten (10) days of
receipt of written notice from a representative of the Commission, it shall submit an additional
true and accurate written report. 

VIII.

This order will terminate on June 8, 2031, or twenty (20) years from the most recent date

that the United States or the Commission files a complaint (with or without an accompanying
consent decree) in federal court alleging any violation of the order, whichever comes later;
provided, however, that the filing of such a complaint will not affect the duration of:

A.

B.

C.

any Part in this order that terminates in fewer than twenty (20) years;

this order’s application to any respondent that is not named as a defendant in such
complaint; and

this order if such complaint is filed after the order has terminated pursuant to this
Part.

-6-

Provided, further, that if such complaint is dismissed or a federal court rules that respondent did
not violate any provision of the order, and the dismissal or ruling is either not appealed or upheld
on appeal, then the order as to such respondent will terminate according to this Part as though
the complaint had never been filed, except that the order will not terminate between the date
such complaint is filed and the later of the deadline for appealing such dismissal or ruling and
the date such dismissal or ruling is upheld on appeal.

By the Commission.

SEAL
ISSUED:  June 8, 2011

Donald S. Clark
Secretary

-7-

