102 3076

COMMISSIONERS:

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION

Jon Leibowitz, Chairman
William E. Kovacic
J. Thomas Rosch
Edith Ramirez
Julie Brill

In the Matter of

)
)
)
)
)
)
                                                                        )

LOOKOUT SERVICES, INC.,
a corporation. 

DOCKET NO.  C-4326

DECISION AND ORDER

The Federal Trade Commission having initiated an investigation of certain acts and
practices of the Respondent named in the caption hereof, and the Respondent having been
furnished thereafter with a copy of a draft Complaint that the Bureau of Consumer Protection
proposed to present to the Commission for its consideration and which, if issued by the
Commission, would charge the Respondent with violation of the Federal Trade Commission Act,
15 U.S.C. § 45 et seq;

The Respondent, its attorney, and counsel for the Commission having thereafter executed

an Agreement Containing Consent Order (“Consent Agreement”), an admission by the
Respondent of all the jurisdictional facts set forth in the aforesaid draft Complaint, a statement
that the signing of said Consent Agreement is for settlement purposes only and does not
constitute an admission by Respondent that the law has been violated as alleged in such
Complaint, or that the facts as alleged in such Complaint, other than jurisdictional facts, are true,
and waivers and other provisions as required by the Commission's Rules; and

The Commission having thereafter considered the matter and having determined that it

has reason to believe that the Respondent has violated the said Act, and that a Complaint should
issue stating its charges in that respect, and having thereupon accepted the executed Consent
Agreement and placed such Consent Agreement on the public record for a period of thirty (30)
days for the receipt and consideration of public comments, now in further conformity with the
procedure described in Commission Rule 2.34, 16 C.F.R. § 2.34, the Commission hereby issues
its Complaint, makes the following jurisdictional findings and enters the following Order:

                                                                        
1.

2

Respondent is a Texas corporation with its principal office or place of business at 5909
West Loop South, Suite 300, Bellaire, Texas 77401.

The Federal Trade Commission has jurisdiction of the subject matter of this proceeding
and of the Respondent, and the proceeding is in the public interest.

ORDER

DEFINITIONS

For purposes of this order, the following definitions shall apply:

1.

2.

Unless otherwise specified, “respondent” shall mean Lookout Services, Inc., its
subsidiaries, divisions, affiliates, successors and assigns. 

“Personal information” shall mean individually identifiable information from or about an
individual consumer including, but not limited to:  (a) a first and last name; (b) a home or
other physical address, including street name and name of city or town; (c) an email
address or other online contact information, such as an instant messaging user identifier
or a screen name; (d) a telephone number; (e) a Social Security number; (f) a driver’s
license number or other government-issued identification number; (g) a bank account,
debit card, or credit card account number; (h) a persistent identifier, such as a customer
number held in a “cookie” or processor serial number, that is combined with other
available data that identifies an individual consumer; (i) a biometric record; or (j) any
information that is combined with any of (a) through (i) above.  For the purpose of this
provision, a “consumer” shall mean any person, including, but not limited to, any user of
respondent’s services, any employee of respondent, or any individual seeking to become
an employee, where “employee” shall mean an agent, servant, salesperson, associate,
independent contractor, or other person directly or indirectly under the control of
respondent.

3.

“Commerce” shall mean as defined in Section 4 of the Federal Trade Commission Act,
15 U.S.C. § 44.

I.

IT IS ORDERED that respondent, directly or through any corporation, subsidiary,

division, website, or other device, shall not misrepresent in any manner, expressly or by
implication, the extent to which it maintains and protects the privacy, confidentiality, security, or
integrity of personal information collected from or about consumers.

-2-

II.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent and its officers, agents, representatives,

and employees, directly or through any corporation, subsidiary, division, website, or other device,
shall, no later than the date of service of this order, establish and implement, and thereafter
maintain, a comprehensive information security program that is reasonably designed to protect
the security, confidentiality, and integrity of personal information collected from or about
consumers.  Such program, the content and implementation of which must be fully documented in
writing, shall contain administrative, technical, and physical safeguards appropriate to
respondent’s size and complexity, the nature and scope of respondent’s activities, and the
sensitivity of the personal information collected from or about consumers, including:  

A.

B.

the designation of an employee or employees to coordinate and be accountable for
the information security program.  

the identification of material internal and external risks to the security,
confidentiality, and integrity of personal information that could result in the
unauthorized disclosure, misuse, loss, alteration, destruction, or other compromise
of such information, and assessment of the sufficiency of any safeguards in place
to control these risks.  At a minimum, this risk assessment should include
consideration of risks in each area of relevant operation, including, but not limited
to:  (1) employee training and management; (2) information systems, including
network and software design, information processing, storage, transmission, and
disposal; and (3) prevention, detection, and response to attacks, intrusions, or other
systems failures.  

C.

the design and implementation of reasonable safeguards to control the risks
identified through risk assessment, and regular testing or monitoring of the
effectiveness of the safeguards’ key controls, systems, and procedures.

D.        the development and use of reasonable steps to select and retain service providers

capable of appropriately safeguarding personal information they receive from
respondent, and requiring service providers by contract to implement and maintain
appropriate safeguards. 

E.

the evaluation and adjustment of respondent’s  information security
program in light of the results of the testing and monitoring required by
subpart C, any material changes to respondent’s operations or business
arrangements, or any other circumstances that respondent knows or has
reason to know may have a material impact on the effectiveness of the
information security program.

-3-

III.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, in connection with its compliance with Part II of this
order, respondent shall obtain initial and biennial assessments and reports (“Assessments”) from a
qualified, objective, independent third-party professional, who uses procedures and standards
generally accepted in the profession.  Professionals qualified to prepare such assessments shall
be:  a person qualified as a Certified Information System Security Professional (CISSP) or as a
Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA); a person holding Global Information Assurance
Certification (GIAC) from the SysAdmin, Audit, Network, Security (SANS) Institute; or a
qualified person or organization approved by the Associate Director for Enforcement, Bureau of
Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, Washington, D.C. 20580.  The reporting
period for the Assessments shall cover:  (1) the first one hundred and eighty (180) days after
service of the order for the initial Assessment, and (2) each two (2) year period thereafter for
twenty (20) years after service of the order for the biennial Assessments.  Each Assessment shall:

A.

B.

C.

D.

set forth the specific administrative, technical, and physical safeguards that
respondent has implemented and maintained during the reporting period;

explain how such safeguards are appropriate to respondent’s size and complexity,
the nature and scope of respondent’s activities, and the sensitivity of the personal
information collected from or about consumers;

explain how the safeguards that have been implemented meet or exceed the
protections required by Part II of this order; and

certify that respondent’s security program is operating with sufficient effectiveness
to provide reasonable assurance that the security, confidentiality, and integrity of
personal information is protected and has so operated throughout the reporting
period.

Each Assessment shall be prepared and completed within sixty (60) days after the end of the
reporting period to which the Assessment applies.  Respondent shall provide the initial
Assessment to the Associate Director for Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal
Trade Commission, Washington, D.C. 20580, within ten (10) days after the Assessment has been
completed.  All subsequent biennial Assessments shall be retained by respondent until the order is
terminated and provided to the Associate Director for Enforcement within ten (10) days of
request.  Unless otherwise directed by a representative of the Commission, the initial Assessment,
and any subsequent Assessments requested, shall be sent by overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal
Service) to the Associate Director of Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal
Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, D.C. 20580, with the subject
line In the matter of Lookout Services, Inc., FTC File No.1023076.  Provided, however, that in
lieu of overnight courier, notices may be sent by first-class mail, but only if an electronic version
of any such notice is contemporaneously sent to the Commission at Debrief@ftc.gov. 

-4-

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent shall maintain and, upon request, make

available to the Federal Trade Commission for inspection and copying: 

IV.

A.

B.

for a period of three (3) years after the date of preparation of each Assessment
required under Part III of this order, all materials relied upon to prepare the
Assessment, whether prepared by or on behalf of respondent, including but not
limited to, all plans, reports, studies, reviews, audits, audit trails, policies, training
materials, and assessments, and any other materials relating to respondent’s
compliance with Parts II and III of this order, for the compliance period covered
by such Assessment;  

unless covered by IV.A, for a period of five (5) years from the date of preparation
or dissemination, whichever is later, a print or electronic copy of each document
relating to compliance with this order, including but not limited to:

1.

2.

all advertisements and promotional materials containing any
representations covered by this order, with all materials used or
relied upon in making or disseminating the representation; and

any documents, whether prepared by or on behalf of respondent,
that contradict, qualify, or call into question compliance with this
order.

V.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent shall deliver copies of the order as

directed below:

A.

Respondent must deliver a copy of this order to (1) all current and future
principals, officers, directors, and managers, (2) all current and future employees,
agents, and representatives having responsibilities relating to the subject matter of
this order, and (3) any business entity resulting from any change in structure set
forth in Part VI.  Respondent shall deliver this order to such current personnel
within thirty (30) days after service of this order, and to such future personnel
within thirty (30) days after the person assumes such position or responsibilities. 
For any business entity resulting from any change in structure set forth in Part VI,
delivery shall be at least ten (10) days prior to the change in structure.

B.

Respondent must secure a signed and dated statement acknowledging receipt of
this order, within thirty (30) days of delivery, from all persons receiving a copy of
the order pursuant to this section.

-5-

VI. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent shall notify the Commission at least thirty
(30) days prior to any change in respondent that may affect compliance obligations arising under
this order, including, but not limited to, a dissolution, assignment, sale, merger, or other action
that would result in the emergence of a successor company; the creation or dissolution of a
subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts or practices subject to this order; the
proposed filing of a bankruptcy petition; or a change in either corporate name or address. 
Provided, however, that, with respect to any proposed change in the corporation about which
respondent learns less than thirty (30) days prior to the date such action is to take place,
respondent shall notify the Commission as soon as is practicable after obtaining such knowledge. 
Unless otherwise directed by a representative of the Commission, all notices required by this Part
shall be sent by overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal Service) to the Associate Director of
Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania
Avenue NW, Washington, D.C. 20580, with the subject line In the matter of Lookout Services,
Inc., FTC File No.1023076.  Provided, however, that in lieu of overnight courier, notices may be
sent by first-class mail, but only if an electronic version of any such notice is contemporaneously
sent to the Commission at Debrief@ftc.gov.  

VII.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent, within sixty (60) days after the date of

service of this order, shall file with the Commission a true and accurate report, in writing, setting
forth in detail the manner and form of its compliance with this order.  Within ten (10) days of
receipt of written notice from a representative of the Commission, it shall submit additional true
and accurate written reports. 

VIII.

This order will terminate on June 15, 2031, or twenty (20) years from the most recent date

that the United States or the Federal Trade Commission files a complaint (with or without an
accompanying consent decree) in federal court alleging any violation of the order, whichever
comes later; provided, however, that the filing of such a complaint will not affect the duration of:

A.

B.

C.

Any Part in this order that terminates in less than twenty (20) years;

This order’s application to any respondent that is not named as a defendant in such
complaint; and

This order if such complaint is filed after the order has terminated pursuant to this
Part.

-6-

Provided, further, that if such complaint is dismissed or a federal court rules that respondent did
not violate any provision of the order, and the dismissal or ruling is either not appealed or upheld
on appeal, then the order will terminate according to this Part as though the complaint had never
been filed, except that the order will not terminate between the date such complaint is filed and
the later of the deadline for appealing such dismissal or ruling and the date such dismissal or
ruling is upheld on appeal.

By the Commission.

SEAL
ISSUED:  June 15, 2011

Donald S. Clark
Secretary

-7-

