UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION

112 3143

COMMISSIONERS:

Jon Leibowitz, Chairman
J. Thomas Rosch
Edith Ramirez
Julie Brill 
Maureen K. Ohlhausen

In the Matter of
EPN, Inc., also d/b/a Checknet, Inc. a
corporation.

              DOCKET NO. C-4370

DECISION AND ORDER

The Federal Trade Commission (“Commission” or “FTC”), having initiated an investigation
of certain acts and practices of the respondent named in the caption hereof, and the respondent
having been furnished thereafter with a copy of a draft of complaint which the Bureau of
Consumer Protection proposed to present to the Commission for its consideration and which, if
issued by the Commission, would charge respondent with violations of the Federal Trade
Commission Act (“FTC Act”), 15 U.S.C. § 45 et seq.;

The respondent, its attorney, and counsel for the Commission having thereafter executed an
agreement containing a consent order, an admission by the respondent of all the jurisdictional
facts set forth in the aforesaid draft complaint, a statement that the signing of said agreement is
for settlement purposes only and does not constitute an admission by respondent that the law has
been violated as alleged in such complaint, or that the facts as alleged in such complaint, other
than jurisdictional facts, are true, and waivers and other provisions as required by the
Commission’s Rules; and 

The Commission having thereafter considered the matter and having determined that it had
reason to believe that the respondent has violated the FTC Act, and that a complaint should issue
stating its charges in that respect, and having thereupon accepted the executed consent
agreement and placed such agreement on the public record for a period of thirty (30) days for the
receipt and consideration of public comments, and having duly considered the comment received
from an interested person pursuant to Commission Rule 2.34, 16 C.F.R. § 2.34, now in further
conformity with the procedure prescribed in Commission Rule 2.34, the Commission hereby
issues its complaint, makes the following jurisdictional findings, and enters the following Order: 

1.

2.

1.

2.

Respondent, EPN, Inc., also d/b/a Checknet Inc. is a corporation organized, existing and
doing business under and by virtue of the laws of the State of Utah, with its office and
principal place of business located in the City of Provo, State of Utah. 

The Federal Trade Commission has jurisdiction of the subject matter of this proceeding
and of the respondent, and the proceeding is in the public interest. 

ORDER

DEFINITIONS

For purposes of this order, the following definitions shall apply:

Unless otherwise specified, “respondent” shall mean EPN, Inc., also dba Checknet, Inc.,
and each of their successors and assigns. 

“Personal information” shall mean individually identifiable information from or about an
individual consumer including, but not limited to: (a) first and last name; (b) date of
birth; (c) a home or other physical address, including street name and name of city or
town; (d) an email address or other online contact information, such as an instant
messaging user identifier or a screen name that reveals an individual’s email address; (e)
a telephone number; (f) a Social Security number; (g) credit or debit card information,
including card number, expiration date, and security code; (h) a persistent identifier, such
as a customer number held in a “cookie” or processor serial number; and (i) any
information that is combined with any of (a) through (h) above. 

3.

“Commerce” shall mean as defined in Section 4 of the Federal Trade Commission Act,
15 U.S.C. § 44.

I.

IT IS ORDERED that respondent and its officers, agents, representatives, and
employees, directly or indirectly, or through any corporation, subsidiary, division, website or
other device, in connection with the advertising, marketing, promotion, offering for sale, or sale
of any product or service, in or affecting commerce, shall not misrepresent in any manner,
expressly or by implication, the extent to which respondent maintains and protects the privacy,
confidentiality, or security of any personal information collected from or about consumers.

II.

IT IS ORDERED that respondent, in connection with the advertising, marketing,

promotion, offering for sale, or sale of any product or service, in or affecting commerce, shall,
no later than the date of service of this order, establish and implement, and thereafter maintain, a
comprehensive information security program that is reasonably designed to protect the security,
confidentiality, and integrity of personal information collected from or about consumers.  Such

Page 2 of 7

program, the content and implementation of which must be fully documented in writing, shall
contain administrative, technical, and physical safeguards appropriate to respondent’s size and
complexity, the nature and scope of respondent’s activities, and the sensitivity of the personal
information collected from or about consumers, including:  

A.

B.

C.

D.

E.

The designation of an employee or employees to coordinate and be accountable
for the information security program. 

The identification of material internal and external risks to the security,
confidentiality, and integrity of personal information that could result in the
unauthorized disclosure, misuse, loss, alteration, destruction, or other compromise
of such information, and assessment of the sufficiency of any safeguards in place
to control these risks.  At a minimum, this risk assessment should include
consideration of risks in each area of relevant operation, including, but not limited
to: (1) employee training and management; (2) information systems, including
network and software design, information processing, storage, transmission, and
disposal; and (3) prevention, detection, and response to attacks, intrusions, or
other systems failures.  

The design and implementation of reasonable safeguards to control the risks
identified through risk assessment, and regular testing or monitoring of the
effectiveness of the safeguards’ key controls, systems, and procedures.

The development and use of reasonable steps to select and retain service
providers capable of appropriately safeguarding personal information they receive
from respondent, and requiring service providers by contract to implement and
maintain appropriate safeguards.

The evaluation and adjustment of respondent’s information security program in
light of the results of the testing and monitoring required by sub-Part C, any
material changes to respondent’s operations or business arrangements, or any
other circumstances that respondent knows or has reason to know may have a
material impact on the effectiveness of its information security program. 

Page 3 of 7

III.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, in connection with its compliance with Part II of this
order, respondent shall obtain initial and biennial assessments and reports (“Assessments”) from
a qualified, objective, independent third-party professional, who uses procedures and standards
generally accepted in the profession.  Professionals qualified to prepare such assessments shall
be: a person qualified as a Certified Information System Security Professional (CISSP) or as a
Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA); a person holding Global Information Assurance
Certification (GIAC) from the SysAdmin, Audit, Network, Security (SANS) Institute; or a
similarly qualified person or organization approved by the Associate Director for Enforcement,
Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, Washington, D.C. 20580.  The
reporting period for the Assessments shall cover: (1) the first one hundred and eighty (180) days
after service of the order for the initial Assessment, and (2) each two (2) year period thereafter
for twenty (20) years after service of the order for the biennial Assessments.  Each Assessment
shall:

A.

B.

C.

D.

Set forth the specific administrative, technical, and physical safeguards that
respondent has implemented and maintained during the reporting period;  

Explain how such safeguards are appropriate to respondent’s size and complexity,
the nature and scope of respondent’s activities, and the sensitivity of the personal
information collected from or about consumers;  

Explain how the safeguards that have been implemented meet or exceed the
protections required by the Part II of this order; and  

Certify that respondent’s security program is operating with sufficient
effectiveness to provide reasonable assurance that the security, confidentiality,
and integrity of personal information is protected and has so operated throughout
the reporting period.

Each Assessment shall be prepared and completed within sixty (60) days after the end of the
reporting period to which the Assessment applies.  Respondent shall provide the initial
Assessment to the Associate Director for Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal
Trade Commission, Washington, D.C. 20580, within ten (10) days after the Assessment has been
prepared.  All subsequent biennial Assessments shall be retained by respondent until the order is
terminated and provided to the Associate Director for Enforcement within ten (10) days of
request.  Unless otherwise directed by a representative of the Commission, initial and biennial
Assessments shall be sent by overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal Service) to the Associate
Director, Division of Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission,
600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, D.C. 20580, with the subject line “In re EPN, Inc.,
FTC File Number 1123143.”  Provided, however, that, in lieu of overnight courier, Assessments
may be sent by first-class mail, but only if an electronic version of such Assessments is
contemporaneously sent to the Commission at DEBrief@ftc.gov.

Page 4 of 7

IV.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent shall maintain and, upon request, make

available to the Federal Trade Commission for inspection and copying: 

A.

B.

For a period of five (5) years, a print or electronic copy of each document relating
to compliance, including but not limited to documents, prepared by or on behalf of
respondent, that contradict, qualify, or call into question respondent’s compliance with
this order; and

For a period of three (3) years after the date of preparation of each Assessment
required under Part II of this order, all materials relied upon to prepare the Assessment,
whether prepared by or on behalf of respondent, including, but not limited to, all plans,
reports, studies, reviews, audits, audit trails, policies, training materials, and assessments,
and any other materials relating to respondent’s compliance with Parts I and II of this
order, for the compliance period covered by such Assessment. 

V.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that for a period of five (5) years from the date of entry

of this Order, respondent shall deliver copies of the Order as directed below:

A. 

Respondent must deliver a copy of this order to (1) all current and future principals,
officers, directors, and managers, (2) all current and future employees, agents and
representatives who engage in conduct related to the subject matter of the Order, and (3)
any business entity resulting from any change in structure set forth in Part VI. For current
personnel, delivery shall be within thirty (30) days of service of this Order.  For new
personnel, delivery shall occur prior to them assuming their responsibilities.  For any
business entity resulting from any change in structure set forth in Part VI, delivery shall
be at least ten (10) days prior to the change in structure.

B.

Respondent must secure a signed and dated statement acknowledging receipt of this
Order, within thirty (30) days of delivery, from all persons receiving a copy of the Order
pursuant to this section.

VI.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent shall notify the Commission at least
thirty (30) days prior to any change that may affect compliance obligations arising under this
order, including, but not limited to, a dissolution, assignment, sale, merger, or other action that
would result in the emergence of a successor company; the creation or dissolution of a
subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts or practices subject to this order; the
proposed filing of a bankruptcy petition; or a change in respondent’s name or address.  Provided,
however, that, with respect to any proposed change in the entity about which respondent learns
less than thirty (30) days prior to the date such action is to take place, respondent shall notify the

Page 5 of 7

Commission as soon as is practicable after obtaining such knowledge.  Unless otherwise directed
by a representative of the Commission, all notices required by this Part shall be sent by overnight
courier (not the U.S. Postal Service) to the Associate Director, Division of Enforcement, Bureau
of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW,
Washington, D.C. 20580, with the subject line “In re EPN, Inc., FTC File Number 1123143.” 
Provided, however, that, in lieu of overnight courier, notices may be sent by first-class mail, but
only if an electronic version of such notices is contemporaneously sent to the Commission at
DEBrief@ftc.gov. 

VII.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent within ninety (90) days after the date of

service of this order, shall file with the Commission a true and accurate report, in writing, setting
forth in detail the manner and form of its compliance with this order.  Within ten (10) days of
receipt of written notice from a representative of the Commission, it shall submit additional true
and accurate written reports.  Unless otherwise directed by a representative of the Commission,
each report required by this Part shall be sent by overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal Service)
to the Associate Director, Division of Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal
Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, D.C. 20580, with the subject
line “In re EPN, Inc., FTC File Number 1123143.”  Provided, however, that, in lieu of overnight
courier, reports may be sent by first-class mail, but only if an electronic version of such reports is
contemporaneously sent to the Commission at DEBrief@ftc.gov.  

VIII.

This order will terminate on October 3, 2032, or twenty (20) years from the most recent
date that the United States or the Federal Trade Commission files a complaint (with or without
an accompanying consent decree) in federal court alleging any violation of the order, whichever
comes later; provided, however, that the filing of such a complaint will not affect the duration of:

A.

B.

C.

Any Part in this order that terminates in less than twenty (20) years;

This order’s application to any respondent that is not named as a defendant in
such complaint; and

This order if such complaint is filed after the order has terminated pursuant to this
Part.

Page 6 of 7

Provided, further, that if such complaint is dismissed or a federal court rules that respondent did
not violate any provision of the order, and the dismissal or ruling is either not appealed or upheld
on appeal, then the order will terminate according to this Part as though the complaint had never
been filed, except that the order will not terminate between the date such complaint is filed and
the later of the deadline for appealing such dismissal or ruling and the date such dismissal or
ruling is upheld on appeal.

By the Commission.

ISSUED:  October 3, 2012
SEAL

Donald S. Clark
Secretary

Page 7 of 7

