COMMISSIONERS:

102 3116

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION

Jon Leibowitz, Chairman
J. Thomas Rosch
Edith Ramirez
Julie Brill

__________________________________________

In the Matter of 

)
)
)
)
)
)
__________________________________________)

UPROMISE, INC., 

a corporation.

DOCKET NO. C-4351

DECISION AND ORDER

The Federal Trade Commission, having initiated an investigation of certain acts
and practices of the Respondent named in the caption hereof, and the Respondent having been
furnished thereafter with a copy of a draft of Complaint which the Bureau of Consumer
Protection proposed to present to the Commission for its consideration and which, if issued,
would charge the Respondent with violation of the Federal Trade Commission Act; and

The Respondent and counsel for the Commission having thereafter executed an
agreement containing a consent order, an admission by the Respondent of all the jurisdictional
facts set forth in the aforesaid draft complaint, a statement that the signing of the agreement is
for settlement purposes only and does not constitute an admission by the Respondent that the law
has been violated as alleged in such complaint, or that any of the facts as alleged in such
complaint, other than jurisdictional facts, are true, and waivers and other provisions as required
by the Commission’s Rules; and

The Commission having thereafter considered the matter and having determined

that it had reason to believe that the Respondent has violated the Federal Trade Commission Act,
and that a complaint should issue stating its charges in that respect, and having thereupon
accepted the executed consent agreement and placed such agreement on the public record for a
period of thirty (30) days for the receipt and consideration of public comments, and having duly
considered the comment received from an interested person pursuant to Section 2.34 of its Rules,
now in further conformity with the procedure prescribed in Section 2.34 of its Rules, 16 C.F.R. §
2.34, the Commission hereby issues its complaint, makes the following jurisdictional findings,
and enters the following order:

1

        
1.

2.

1.

Respondent Upromise, Inc., is a Delaware corporation with its principal office at
95 Wells Avenue, Suite 160, Newton, Massachusetts 02459. 

The Federal Trade Commission has jurisdiction of the subject matter of this
proceeding and of the Respondent, and the proceeding is in the public interest.

ORDER

DEFINITIONS

For purposes of this order, the following definitions shall apply:

“Affected Consumers” shall mean persons who, prior to the date of issuance of
this order, downloaded and installed the TurboSaver Toolbar and had the
Personalized Offers feature enabled.

2.

“Clearly and prominently” shall mean as follows:

A.

B.

C.

D.

E.

In textual communications (e.g., printed publications or words displayed
on the screen of a computer or a mobile device), the required disclosures
are of a type, size, and location sufficiently noticeable for an ordinary
consumer to read and comprehend them, in print that contrasts highly with
the background on which they appear; 

In communications disseminated orally or through audible means (e.g.,
radio or streaming audio), the required disclosures are delivered in a
volume and cadence sufficient for an ordinary consumer to hear and
comprehend them;

In communications disseminated through video means (e.g., television or
streaming video), the required disclosures are in writing in a form
consistent with subparagraph (A) of this definition and shall appear on the
screen for a duration sufficient for an ordinary consumer to read and
comprehend them, and in the same language as the predominant language
that is used in the communication;

In communications made through interactive media, such as the Internet,
online services, and software, the required disclosures are unavoidable and
presented in a form consistent with subparagraph (A) of this definition, in
addition to any audio or video presentation of them; and

In all instances, the required disclosures are presented in an
understandable language and syntax, and with nothing contrary to,

2

inconsistent with, or in mitigation of the disclosures used in any
communication of them.

“Collected Information” shall mean any information or data transmitted from a
computer by the TurboSaver Toolbar as a result of the Personalized Offers feature
being enabled prior to the date of issuance of this order to any computer server
owned by, operated by, or operated for the benefit of respondent.

“Commerce” shall mean as defined in Section 4 of the Federal Trade Commission
Act, 15 U.S.C. § 44.  

“Computer” shall mean any desktop or laptop computer, handheld device,
telephone, or other electronic product or device that has a platform on which to
download, install, or run any software program, code, script, or other content and
to play any digital audio, visual, or audiovisual content.

“Covered Online Service” shall mean any product or service using or
incorporating a Targeting Tool.  Covered Online Service includes, but is not
limited to, the TurboSaver Toolbar with the Personalized Offers feature enabled.

“Personal information” shall mean individually identifiable information from or
about an individual consumer including, but not limited to: (a) a first and last
name; (b) a home or other physical address, including street name and name of
city or town; (c) an email address or other online contact information, such as an
instant messaging user identifier or a screen name; (d) a telephone number; (e) a
Social Security number; (f) a driver’s license number or other government-issued
identification number; (g) prescription information, such as medication and
dosage, and prescribing physician name, address, and telephone number, health
insurer name, insurance account number, or insurance policy number; (h) a bank
account, debit card, or credit card account number; (i) a persistent identifier, such
as a customer number held in a “cookie” or processor serial number, that is
combined with other available data that identifies an individual consumer; (j) a
biometric record; or (k) any information that is combined with any of (a) through
(j) above.   

“Personalized Offers feature” shall mean the component of the TurboSaver
Toolbar that Upromise has offered under the name of “Personalized Offers.”

“Respondent” shall mean Upromise, Inc., and its successors and assigns, and its
officers, agents, representatives, and employees.

“Targeting Tool” shall mean any software program or application distributed by
or on behalf of respondent that is installed on a consumer's computer, whether as
a standalone product or as a feature of another product, and used by or on behalf

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

3

of respondent to record or transmit information about any activity occurring on
that computer involving the computer's interactions with websites, services,
applications, or forms, unless (a) the activity involves transmission of information
related to the configuration of the software program or application itself; (b) the
activity involves a consumer's interactions with respondent's websites, services,
applications, and/or forms; or (c) the activity involves a consumer's interactions
with respondent's member merchants and that information is collected, retained,
or used only as necessary for the purpose of providing the consumer's reward
service benefits for transactions involving those merchants.

The TurboSaver Toolbar when configured to collect consumer data, for example,
with the Personalized Offers feature enabled, is a Targeting Tool.

11.

“Third party” shall mean any individual or entity other than respondent, except
that a third party shall not include a service provider of respondent that: 

A. 

B. 

only uses or receives personal information collected by or on behalf of
respondent for and at the direction of the respondent and no other
individual or entity, 

does not disclose the data, or any individually identifiable information
derived from such data, to any individual or entity other than respondent,
and 

C. 

does not use the data for any other purpose.

I.

IT IS ORDERED that respondent, directly or through any corporation,

subsidiary, division, website, or other device, in connection with the advertising, promotion,
offering for sale, sale, or distribution of any Targeting Tool, in or affecting commerce, shall, 

A.

Prior to the consumer enabling (by downloading, installing, or otherwise
activating) any Targeting Tool: 

1.

Clearly and prominently, and prior to the display of and on a
separate screen from, any “end user license agreement,” “privacy
policy,” “terms of use” page, or similar document, disclose: 

a) all the types of data that the Targeting Tool will collect,
including but not limited to, if applicable, a statement that the data
includes transactions or communications between the consumer
and third parties in secure sessions, interactions with shopping
baskets, application forms, online accounts, web-based email

4

accounts, or search engine pages, and if the information includes
personal, financial or health information. 

b) how the data is used, including if the data is shared with a third
party, other than as reasonably necessary: (i) to comply with
applicable law, regulation, or legal process, (ii) to enforce
respondent’s terms of use, or (iii) to detect, prevent, or mitigate
fraud or security vulnerabilities.

2.

Obtain express affirmative consent from the consumer to the
enabling (by downloading, installing, or otherwise activating) and
to the collection of data.

B.

For those TurboSaver Toolbars installed by consumers before the date of
issuance of this order, prior to (1) enabling data collection through any
Targeting Tool or (2) otherwise making any material change from stated
practices about collection or sharing of personal information through the
TurboSaverToolbar, provide the notice and obtain the express consent
described in subparts A(1) and (2) of this Part.

II.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent shall:

A.

Notify Affected Consumers:  a) that they have or had the Personalized
Offers feature enabled, and that from 2005 through January 2010 use of
this feature resulted in collection and transmission of data to or on behalf
of respondent, listing the categories of personal information that were, or
could have been, transmitted; and b) how to permanently disable the
Personalized Offers feature and uninstall the TurboSaver Toolbar. 
Notification shall be by each of the following means:

1.

2.

Beginning within thirty (30) days after the date of service of this
order and for two (2) years after the date of service of this order,
posting of a clear and prominent notice on its website.

Beginning within thirty (30) days after the date of service of this
order and for three (3) years after the date of service of this order,
informing Affected Consumers who complain or inquire about the
privacy or security of the TurboSaver Toolbar.

3.   Within sixty (60) days after the date of service of this order,

providing direct, clear and prominent notice to Affected
Consumers who have the Personalized Offers feature enabled.     

5

 
B.

Provide prompt, toll-free, telephonic and electronic mail support to help
Affected Consumers disable the Personalized Offers feature and, if
requested, uninstall the TurboSaver Toolbar.

III.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent shall, within five (5) days after

the date of service of this order, delete or destroy, or cause to be deleted or destroyed, all
Collected Information in respondent’s custody or control, unless otherwise directed by a
representative of the Commission.

IV.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent, directly or through any

corporation, subsidiary, division, website, or other device, in connection with its advertising,
marketing, promotion, or offering of any service or product in or affecting commerce, shall not
make any representation, in any manner, expressly or by implication, about the extent to which
respondent maintains and protects the security, privacy, confidentiality, or integrity of any
personal information collected from or about consumers, unless the representation is true, and
non-misleading.

V.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent, directly or through any

corporation, subsidiary, division, website, or other device, in connection with its advertising,
marketing, promotion, or offering of any product or service, in or affecting commerce, shall
maintain a comprehensive information security program that is reasonably designed to protect
the security, privacy, confidentiality, and integrity of personal information collected from or
about consumers.  This section may be satisfied through the review and maintenance of an
existing program so long as that program fulfills the requirements set forth herein.  Such
program, the content and implementation of which must be fully documented in writing, shall
contain administrative, technical, and physical safeguards appropriate to respondent’s size and
complexity and the nature and scope of respondent’s activities, and the sensitivity of the personal
information collected from or about consumers, including: 

A.

B.

The designation of an employee or employees to coordinate and be
accountable for the information security program;

The identification of material internal and external risks that could result
in the unauthorized disclosure, misuse, loss, alteration, destruction, or
other compromise of personal information and an assessment of the
sufficiency of any safeguards in place to control these risks.  At a
minimum, this risk assessment should include consideration of risks in
each area of relevant operation, including, but not limited to:  (1)

6

C.

D.

E.

employee training and management; (2) information systems, including
network and software design, information processing, storage,
transmission, and disposal; and (3) prevention, detection, and response to
attacks, intrusions, account takeovers, or other systems failures;

The design and implementation of reasonable safeguards to control the
risks identified through risk assessment, and regular testing or monitoring
of the effectiveness of the safeguards’ key controls, systems, and
procedures;

The development and use of reasonable steps to select and retain service
providers capable of appropriately safeguarding personal information such
service providers receive from respondent or obtain on respondent’s
behalf, and the requirement, by contract, that such service providers
implement and maintain appropriate safeguards; and

The evaluation and adjustment of respondent’s information security
program in light of the results of the testing and monitoring required by
subpart C, any material changes to respondent’s operations or business
arrangements, or any other circumstances that respondent knows or has
reason to know may have a material impact on the effectiveness of its
information security program.

VI.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, in connection with its compliance with Part

V of this order, for any Covered Online Service respondent shall obtain initial and biennial
assessments and reports (“Assessments”) from a qualified, objective, independent third-party
professional, who uses procedures and standards generally accepted in the profession. 
Professionals qualified to prepare such Assessments shall be:  a person qualified as a Certified
Information System Security Professional (CISSP) or as a Certified Information Systems
Auditor (CISA); a person holding Global Information Assurance Certification (GIAC) from the
SysAdmin, Audit, Network, Security (SANS) Institute; or a similarly qualified person or
organization approved by the Associate Director for Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer
Protection, Federal Trade Commission, Washington, D.C. 20580.  The reporting period for the
Assessments shall cover: (1) the first one hundred and eighty (180) days after service of the
order for the initial Assessment, and (2) each two (2) year period thereafter for twenty (20) years
after service of the order for the biennial Assessments.  Each Assessment shall:

7

A.

B.

C.

D.

Set forth the specific administrative, technical, and physical safeguards
that respondent has implemented and maintained during the reporting
period;

Explain how such safeguards are appropriate to respondent’s size and
complexity, and the nature and scope of respondent’s activities, and the
sensitivity of the personal information collected from or about consumers;

Explain how the safeguards that have been implemented meet or exceed
the protections required by Part V of this order; and

Certify that respondent’s security program is operating with sufficient
effectiveness to provide reasonable assurance that the security,
confidentiality, and integrity of personal information is protected and has
so operated throughout the reporting period.

Each Assessment shall be prepared and completed within sixty (60) days after the

end of the reporting period to which the Assessment applies.  Respondent shall provide the
initial Assessment to the Associate Director for Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection,
Federal Trade Commission, Washington, D.C. 20580, within ten (10) days after the Assessment
has been prepared.  All subsequent biennial Assessments shall be retained by respondent until
the order is terminated and provided to the Associate Director of Enforcement within ten (10)
days of request.

VII.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent shall, for a period of five (5)

years after the last date of dissemination of any representation covered by this order, maintain
and upon request make available to the Commission for inspection and copying:

A. 

B.

C.

All advertisements, labeling, packaging and promotional material
containing the representation;

All materials relied upon in disseminating the representation; 

All tests, reports, studies, surveys, demonstrations, or other evidence in its
possession or control that contradict, qualify, or call into question the
representation, or the basis relied upon for the representation, including
complaints and other communications with consumers or with
governmental or consumer protection organizations; and 

D.

All acknowledgments of receipt of this order, obtained pursuant to Part
IX.

8

Moreover, for a period of three (3) years after the date of preparation of each
Assessment required under Part VI of this order, respondent shall maintain and upon request
make available to the Commission for inspection and copying all materials relied upon to
prepare the Assessment, whether prepared by or on behalf of the respondent, including but not
limited to all plans, reports, studies, reviews, audits, audit trails, policies, training materials, and
assessments, for the compliance period covered by such Assessment.

VIII.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent shall, in connection with this

action or any subsequent investigations related to or associated with the transactions or the
occurrences that are the subject of the Commission’s complaint, cooperate in good faith with the
Commission and appear at such places and times as the Commission shall reasonably request,
after written notice, for interviews, conferences, pretrial discovery, review of documents, and for
such other matters as may be reasonably requested by the Commission.  If requested in writing
by the Commission, respondent shall appear and provide truthful testimony in any trial,
deposition, or other proceeding related to or associated with the transactions or the occurrences
that are the subject of the complaint, without the service of a subpoena.

IX.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent shall deliver a copy of this order

to: (1) all current and future principals, officers, and directors; and (2) all current and future
managers who have responsibilities with respect to the subject matter of this order, and shall
secure from each such person a signed and dated statement acknowledging receipt of the order,
with any electronic signatures complying with the requirements of the E-Sign Act, 15 U.S.C.
§ 7001 et seq.  Respondent shall deliver this order to current personnel within thirty (30) days
after the date of service of the order, and to future personnel within thirty (30) days after the
person assumes such position or responsibilities.

X.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent shall notify the Commission at
least thirty (30) days prior to any change in respondent that may affect compliance obligations
arising under this order, including but not limited to, a dissolution, assignment, sale, merger, or
other action that would result in the emergence of a successor company; the creation or
dissolution of a subsidiary (including an LLC),  parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts or
practices subject to this order; the proposed filing of a bankruptcy petition; or a change in
respondent’s name or address.  Provided, however, that with respect to any proposed change
about which respondent learns less than thirty (30) days prior to the date such action is to take
place, respondent shall notify the Commission as soon as is practicable after obtaining such
knowledge. 

9

Unless otherwise directed by a representative of the Commission, all notices

required by this Part shall be sent by overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal Service) to the
Associate Director of Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission,
600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20580, with the subject line FTC v. Upromise. 
Provided, however, that, in lieu of overnight courier, notices may be sent by first-class mail, but
only if an electronic version of such notices is contemporaneously sent to the Commission at
Debrief@ftc.gov.

XI.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent shall, within sixty (60) days after
service of this order, and at such other times as the FTC may require, file with the Commission a
true and accurate report, in writing, setting forth in detail the manner and form in which
respondent has complied with this order.  Within ten (10) days of receipt of written notice from a
representative of the Commission, respondent shall submit additional true and accurate written
reports.

XII.

This order will terminate on December 31, 2031, or twenty (20) years from the

most recent date that the United States or the Commission files a complaint (with or without an
accompanying consent decree) in federal court alleging any violation of the order, whichever
comes later; provided, however, that the filing of such a complaint will not affect the duration of:

A.

B.

C.

Any Part of this order that terminates in less than twenty (20) years; 

This order’s application to any respondent that is not named as a
defendant in such complaint; and

This order if such complaint is filed after the order has terminated
pursuant to this Part.

10

Provided, further, that if such complaint is dismissed or a federal court rules that the
respondent did not violate any provision of the order, and the dismissal or ruling is either not
appealed or upheld on appeal, then the order will terminate according to this Part as though the
complaint had never been filed, except that this order will not terminate between the date such
complaint is filed and the later of the deadline for appealing such dismissal or ruling and the date
such dismissal or ruling is upheld on appeal.

By the Commission.

                                                                        Secretary

Donald S. Clark                                                           

SEAL:

ISSUED:  March 27, 2012

11

