122 3049 

COMMISSIONERS: 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION 

Edith Ramirez, Chairwoman 
Julie Brill 
Maureen K. Ohlhausen 
Joshua D. Wright 

_________________________________________ 

In the Matter of 

HTC America, Inc. 

 ) 
 )  
 ) 
             ) 
 ) 
 ) 
__________________________________________ ) 

DOCKET No. C-4406 

DECISION AND ORDER 

The Federal Trade Commission (“Commission” or “FTC”), having initiated an 
investigation of certain acts and practices of the respondent named in the caption hereof, and the 
respondent having been furnished thereafter with a copy of a draft complaint that the Bureau of 
Consumer Protection proposed to present to the Commission for its consideration and which, if 
issued by the Commission, would charge respondent with violations of the Federal Trade 
Commission Act (“FTC Act”), 15 U.S.C. § 45 et seq.; 

The respondent, its attorney, and counsel for the Commission having thereafter executed 

an Agreement Containing Consent Order (“Consent Agreement”), which includes: a statement 
by respondent that it neither admits nor denies any of the allegations in the draft complaint, 
except as specifically stated in the Consent Agreement, and, only for purposes of this action, 
admits the facts necessary to establish jurisdiction; and waivers and other provisions as required 
by the Commission’s Rules; and  

The Commission having thereafter considered the matter and having determined that it 
had reason to believe that the respondent has violated the FTC Act, and that a complaint should 
issue stating its charges in that respect, and having thereupon accepted the executed consent 
agreement and placed such agreement on the public record for a period of thirty (30) days for the 
receipt and consideration of public comments, and having duly considered the comments 
received from interested persons pursuant to section 2.34 of its Rules, now in further conformity 
with the procedure prescribed in Commission Rule 2.34, 16 C.F.R. § 2.34, the Commission 
hereby issues its complaint, makes the following jurisdictional findings, and enters the following 
Order: 

1. 

Respondent HTC America, Inc. (“HTC”) is a Washington corporation with its principal 
office or place of business at 13920 SE Eastgate Way, Suite #400, Bellevue, WA 98005. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 

The Federal Trade Commission has jurisdiction of the subject matter of this proceeding 
and of the respondent, and the proceeding is in the public interest. 

ORDER 

DEFINITIONS 

For purposes of this order, the following definitions shall apply: 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

Unless otherwise specified, “respondent” shall mean HTC America, Inc., and its 
successors and assigns.   

“Commerce” shall mean as defined in Section 4 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, 
15 U.S.C. § 44. 

“Covered device” shall mean any desktop computer, laptop computer, tablet, handheld or 
mobile device, telephone, or other electronic product or device developed by respondent 
or any corporation, subsidiary, division, or affiliate owned or controlled by respondent 
that has a platform on which to download, install, or run any software program, code, 
script, or other content and to play any digital audio, visual, or audiovisual content. 

“Covered information” shall mean individually-identifiable information from or about an 
individual consumer collected by respondent through a covered device or input into, 
stored on, captured with, or transmitted through a covered device, including but not 
limited to (a) a first and last name; (b) a home or other physical address, including street 
name and name of city or town; (c) an email address or other online contact information, 
such as an instant messaging user identifier or a screen name; (d) a telephone number; (e) 
a Social Security number; (f) a driver’s license or other state-issued identification 
number; (g) a financial institution account number; (h) credit or debit card information; 
(i) a persistent identifier, such as a customer number held in a “cookie,” a static Internet 
Protocol (“IP”) address, a mobile device ID, or processor serial number; (j) precise geo-
location data of an individual or mobile device, including GPS-based, WiFi-based, or 
cell-based location information; (k) an authentication credential, such as a username and 
password; or (l) any other communications or content that is input into, stored on, 
captured with, accessed or transmitted through a covered device, including but not 
limited to contacts, emails, text messages, photos, videos, and audio recordings.  

5. 

“Covered device functionality” shall mean any capability of a covered device to capture, 
access, or transmit covered information. 

I. 

IT IS ORDERED that respondent and its officers, agents, representatives, and 
employees, directly or through any corporation, subsidiary, division, website, or other device or 
affiliate owned or controlled by respondent, in or affecting commerce, shall not misrepresent in 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
any manner, expressly or by implication, the extent to which respondent or its products or 
services, including any covered devices, use, maintain and protect the security of covered device 
functionality or the security, privacy, confidentiality, or integrity of any covered information 
from or about consumers.  

II. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent shall, no later than the date of service of 
this order, establish and implement, and thereafter maintain, a comprehensive security program 
that is reasonably designed to (1) address security risks related to the development and 
management of new and existing covered devices, and (2) protect the security, confidentiality, 
and integrity of covered information, whether collected by respondent or input into, stored on, 
captured with, accessed or transmitted through a covered device.  Such program, the content and 
implementation of which must be fully documented in writing, shall contain administrative, 
technical, and physical safeguards appropriate to respondent’s size and complexity, the nature 
and scope of respondent’s activities, and the sensitivity of the covered device functionality or 
covered information, including:   

A.  the designation of an employee or employees to coordinate and be accountable for the 

security program;   

B.  the identification of material internal and external risks to the security of covered 
devices that could result in unauthorized access to or use of covered device 
functionality, and assessment of the sufficiency of any safeguards in place to control 
these risks;   

C.  the identification of material internal and external risks to the security, 

confidentiality, and integrity of covered information that could result in the 
unauthorized disclosure, misuse, loss, alteration, destruction, or other compromise of 
such information, whether such information is in respondent’s possession or is input 
into, stored on, captured with, accessed or transmitted through a covered device, and 
assessment of the sufficiency of any safeguards in place to control these risks; 

D.  at a minimum, the risk assessments required by subparts B and C should include 

consideration of risks in each area of relevant operation, including, but not limited to: 
(1) employee training and management; (2) product design, development and 
research; (3) secure software design and testing, including secure engineering and 
defensive programming; and (4) review, assessment, and response to third-party 
security vulnerability reports;  

E.  the design and implementation of reasonable safeguards to control the risks identified 
through the risk assessments, including through reasonable and appropriate software 
security testing techniques, and regular testing or monitoring of the effectiveness of 
the safeguards’ key controls, systems, and procedures;   

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
F.  the development and use of reasonable steps to select and retain service providers 
capable of maintaining security practices consistent with this order, and requiring 
service providers by contract to implement and maintain appropriate safeguards; and 

G.  the evaluation and adjustment of the security program in light of the results of the 

testing and monitoring required by subpart E, any material changes to respondent’s 
operations or business arrangements, or any other circumstances that respondent 
knows or has reason to know may have a material impact on the effectiveness of its 
security program.  

Provided, however, that this Part does not obligate respondent to identify and correct security 
vulnerabilities in third parties’ software on covered devices to the extent the vulnerabilities are 
not the result of respondent’s integration, modification, or customization of the third party 
software.  

III. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent shall develop security patches to fix the 

security vulnerabilities described in Attachment A for each affected covered device having an 
operating system version released on or after December 2010.  Within thirty (30) days of service 
of this order, respondent shall release the applicable security patch(es) either directly to affected 
covered devices or to the applicable network operator for deployment of the security patch(es) to 
the affected covered devices.  Respondent shall provide users of the affected covered devices 
with clear and prominent notice regarding the availability of the applicable security patch(es) and 
instructions for installing the applicable security patch(es).   

IV. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, in connection with its compliance with Part II of this 
order, respondent shall obtain initial and biennial assessments and reports (“Assessments”) from 
a qualified, objective, independent third-party professional, who uses procedures and standards 
generally accepted in the profession.  Professionals qualified to prepare such Assessments shall 
be:  a person qualified as a Certified Secure Software Lifecycle Professional (CSSLP) with 
experience in secure mobile programming; or as a Certified Information System Security 
Professional (CISSP) with professional experience in the Software Development Security 
domain and secure mobile programming; or a similarly qualified person or organization 
approved by the Associate Director for Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal 
Trade Commission, Washington, D.C. 20580.  The reporting period for the Assessments shall 
cover:  (1) the first one hundred eighty (180) days after service of the order for the initial 
Assessment; and (2) each two (2) year period thereafter for twenty (20) years after service of the 
order for the biennial Assessments.  Each Assessment shall: 

A.  set forth the specific administrative, technical, and physical safeguards that 
respondent has implemented and maintained during the reporting period; 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B.  explain how such safeguards are appropriate to respondent’s size and complexity, the 
nature and scope of respondent’s activities, and the sensitivity of the covered device 
functionality or covered information; 

C.  explain how the safeguards that have been implemented meet or exceed the 

protections required by Part II of this order; and 

D.  certify that respondent’s security program is operating with sufficient effectiveness to 
provide reasonable assurance that the security of covered device functionality and the 
security, confidentiality, and integrity of covered information is protected and has so 
operated throughout the reporting period. 

Each Assessment shall be prepared and completed within sixty (60) days after the end of the 
reporting period to which the Assessment applies.  Respondent shall provide the initial 
Assessment to the Associate Director for Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal 
Trade Commission, Washington, D.C. 20580, within ten (10) days after the Assessment has been 
prepared.  All subsequent biennial Assessments shall be retained by respondent until the order is 
terminated and provided to the Associate Director of Enforcement within ten (10) days of 
request.  Unless otherwise directed by a representative of the Commission, the initial 
Assessment, and any subsequent Assessments requested, shall be sent by overnight courier (not 
the U.S. Postal Service) to the Associate Director of Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer 
Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, D.C. 
20580, with the subject line In the matter of HTC America, Inc., FTC File No. 1223049.  
Provided, however, that in lieu of overnight courier, notices may be sent by first-class mail, but 
only if an electronic version of any such notice is contemporaneously sent to the Commission at 
Debrief@ftc.gov. 

V. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent shall maintain and upon request make 

available to the Federal Trade Commission for inspection and copying, a print or electronic copy 
of: 

A.  for a period of three (3) years after the date of preparation of each Assessment 
required under Part IV of this order, all materials relied upon to prepare the 
Assessment, whether prepared by or on behalf of the respondent, including but not 
limited to all plans, reports, studies, reviews, audits, audit trails, policies, training 
materials, and assessments, and any other materials relating to respondent’s 
compliance with Parts II and III of this order, for the compliance period covered by 
such Assessment;   

B.  unless covered by V.A, for a period of three (3) years from the date of preparation or 

dissemination, whichever is later, all other documents relating to compliance with this 
order, including but not limited to: 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  all advertisements and promotional materials containing any representations 

covered by this order, as well as all materials used or relied upon in making or 
disseminating the representation; and 

2.  any documents, whether prepared by or on behalf of respondent, that 

contradict, qualify, or call into question respondent’s compliance with this 
order. 

VI. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent shall deliver a copy of this order to all 
current and future subsidiaries, current and future principals, officers, directors, and managers, 
and to all current and future employees, agents, and representatives having responsibilities 
relating to the subject matter of this order.  Respondent shall deliver this order to such current 
subsidiaries and personnel within thirty (30) days after service of this order, and to such future 
subsidiaries and personnel within thirty (30) days after the person assumes such position or 
responsibilities. 

VII.  

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent shall notify the Commission at least 

thirty (30) days prior to any change in the corporation(s) that may affect compliance obligations 
arising under this order, including, but not limited to: a dissolution, assignment, sale, merger, or 
other action that would result in the emergence of a successor corporation; the creation or 
dissolution of a subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts or practices subject to this 
order; the proposed filing of a bankruptcy petition; or a change in the corporate name or address.  
Provided, however, that, with respect to any proposed change in the corporation(s) about which 
respondent learns fewer than thirty (30) days prior to the date such action is to take place, 
respondent shall notify the Commission as soon as is practicable after obtaining such knowledge.  
Unless otherwise directed by a representative of the Commission, all notices required by this Part 
shall be sent by overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal Service) to the Associate Director of 
Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania 
Avenue NW, Washington, D.C. 20580, with the subject line In the matter of HTC America, Inc., 
FTC File No. 1223049.  Provided, however, that in lieu of overnight courier, notices may be sent 
by first-class mail, but only if an electronic version of any such notice is contemporaneously sent 
to the Commission at Debrief@ftc.gov.  

VIII. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent within sixty (60) days after the date of 

service of this order, shall file with the Commission a true and accurate report, in writing, setting 
forth in detail the manner and form of its compliance with this order.  Within ten (10) days of 
receipt of written notice from a representative of the Commission, it shall submit an additional 
true and accurate written report.   

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IV. 

This order will terminate on June 25, 2033, or twenty (20) years from the most recent 

date that the United States or the Commission files a complaint (with or without an 
accompanying consent decree) in federal court alleging any violation of the order, whichever 
comes later; provided, however, that the filing of such a complaint will not affect the duration of: 

A. 

B. 

C. 

any Part in this order that terminates in fewer than twenty (20) years; 

this order’s application to any respondent that is not named as a defendant in such 
complaint; and 

this order if such complaint is filed after the order has terminated pursuant to this 
Part. 

Provided, further, that if such complaint is dismissed or a federal court rules that respondent did 
not violate any provision of the order, and the dismissal or ruling is either not appealed or upheld 
on appeal, then the order as to such respondent will terminate according to this Part as though the 
complaint had never been filed, except that the order will not terminate between the date such 
complaint is filed and the later of the deadline for appealing such dismissal or ruling and the date 
such dismissal or ruling is upheld on appeal. 

By the Commission, Commissioner Ohlhausen recused. 

Donald S. Clark 
Secretary 

SEAL 
ISSUED:  June 25, 2013 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ATTACHMENT A 

PERMISSION RE-DELEGATION 

1.   Permission re-delegation occurs when one application that has permission to access 

covered information or covered device functionality provides another application that has 
not been given the same level of permission with access to that information or 
functionality.  Because HTC failed in numerous instances to include “permission check” 
code in its custom, pre-installed applications on its Android-based devices, any third- 
party application exploiting these vulnerabilities could command those HTC applications 
to access various covered information and covered device functionality on its behalf -- 
including enabling the device’s microphone; accessing the user’s GPS-based, cell-based, 
and WiFi-based location information; and sending text messages -- all without requesting 
the user’s permission. 

APPLICATION INSTALLATION VULNERABILITY 

2.   HTC pre-installed a custom application on its Android-based devices that could 

download and install applications outside of the normal Android installation process. 
HTC failed to include appropriate permission check code to protect this pre-installed 
application from exploitation.  As a result, any third-party application exploiting the 
vulnerability could command this pre-installed application to download and install any 
additional applications from any server onto the device without the user’s knowledge or 
consent. 

INSECURE COMMUNICATIONS MECHANISMS 

3.   HTC failed to use readily-available and documented secure communications mechanisms 
in implementing logging applications on its devices, placing covered information at risk. 
Communications with logging applications should be secure to ensure that only 
designated applications can access the information.  HTC implemented insecure 
communication mechanisms, as described below. 

a.  HTC Loggers.  HTC installed its customer support and trouble-shooting tool HTC 
Loggers on Android-based mobile devices.  Because HTC Loggers could collect 
sensitive information from various device logs, it was supposed to have been 
accessible only to HTC and network operators. Because HTC used an insecure 
communications mechanism, however, any third-party application on the user’s 
device that could connect to the internet could exploit this vulnerability to 
communicate with HTC Loggers without authorization and command it to collect 
and transmit covered information from the device logs. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
b.   Carrier IQ.  HTC embedded Carrier IQ diagnostics software on Android-based 
mobile devices and Windows Mobile-based mobile devices at the direction of 
network operators who used Carrier IQ to collect a variety of covered information 
from user devices to analyze network and device problems.  In order to embed the 
Carrier IQ software on its mobile devices, HTC developed a “CIQ Interface” that 
would pass the necessary information to the Carrier IQ software.  Because HTC 
used an insecure communications mechanism, any third-party application on the 
user’s device that could connect to the internet could exploit this vulnerability to 
communicate with the CIQ Interface, allowing it to: 

i.   Intercept the covered information being collected by the Carrier IQ 

software; and 

ii.   In the case of HTC’s Android-based devices, perform potentially 

malicious actions, including, but not limited to, sending text messages 
without permission. 

DEBUG CODE 

4.   During the development of its CIQ Interface for its Android-based devices, HTC 

activated “debug code” in order to help test whether the CIQ Interface was functioning as 
intended, but then failed to deactivate the code before its devices shipped for sale to 
consumers.  As a result of the active debug code, covered information was written to the 
Android system log, and was accessible to any third-party application with permission to 
read the system log, and in many instances, was also sent to HTC. 

 
 
 
 
 
