UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION 

122 3090 

COMMISSIONERS:  

Edith Ramirez, Chairwoman 
Julie Brill 
Maureen K. Ohlhausen 
Joshua D. Wright 

In the Matter of 

__________________________________________ 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
__________________________________________) 

TRENDNET, INC.,   
a corporation. 

DOCKET No. C-4426 

DECISION AND ORDER  

The Federal Trade Commission (“Commission” or “FTC”), having initiated an 
investigation of certain acts and practices of the respondent named in the caption hereof, and the 
respondent having been furnished thereafter with a copy of a draft complaint that the Bureau of 
Consumer Protection proposed to present to the Commission for its consideration and which, if 
issued by the Commission, would charge respondent with violations of the Federal Trade 
Commission Act (“FTC Act”), 15 U.S.C. § 45 et seq.; 

The respondent, its attorney, and counsel for the Commission having thereafter executed 

an Agreement Containing Consent Order (“Consent Agreement”), which includes: a statement 
by respondent that it neither admits nor denies any of the allegations in the draft complaint, 
except as specifically stated in the Consent Agreement, and, only for purposes of this action, 
admits the facts necessary to establish jurisdiction; and waivers and other provisions as required 
by the Commission’s Rules; and 

The Commission having thereafter considered the matter and having determined that it 
had reason to believe that the respondent has violated the FTC Act, and that a complaint should 
issue stating its charges in that respect, and having thereupon accepted the executed consent 
agreement and placed such agreement on the public record for a period of thirty (30) days for the 
receipt and consideration of public comments, and having duly considered the comments 
received from interested persons pursuant to Commission Rule 2.34, 16 C.F.R. § 2.34, now in 
further conformity with the procedure prescribed in Commission Rule 2.34, the Commission 
hereby issues its complaint, makes the following jurisdictional findings, and enters the following 
Decision and Order (“Order”): 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 

2. 

Respondent TRENDnet, Inc. (“TRENDnet”) is a California corporation with its principal 
office or place of business at 20675 Manhattan Place, Torrance, California 90501. 

The Federal Trade Commission has jurisdiction of the subject matter of this proceeding 
and of the respondent, and the proceeding is in the public interest. 

ORDER 

DEFINITIONS 

For purposes of this Order, the following definitions shall apply: 

1. 

2. 

3. 

“Affected Consumers” shall mean persons who purchased and installed one of the 
following Cameras with software last updated prior to February 7, 2012: TV-IP110 
(Version A1.xR); TV-IP110W (Version A1.xR); TV-IP110WN (Version A1.xR); TV-
IP110WN (Version V2.0R); TV-IP121W (Version A1.xR); TV-IP121WN (Version 
V1.0R); TV-IP121WN (Version V2.0R); TV-IP212 (Version A1.xR); TV-IP212W 
(Version A1.xR); TV-IP252P (Version B1.xR); TV-IP312 (Version A1.xR); TV-IP312W 
(Version A1.xr); TV-IP312WN (Version A1.xR); TV-IP322P (Version V1.0R); TV-
IP410 (Version A1.XR); TV-IP410W (Version A1.xR); TV-IP410WN (Version V1.0R); 
TV-IP422 (Versions A1.xR/A2.xR); TV-IP422W (Versions A1.xR/A2.xR); TV-
IP422WN (Version V1.0R); TV-VS1 (Version V1.0R); and TV-VS1P (Version V1.0R). 

“App” or “Apps” shall mean any software application or related code developed, 
branded, or provided by respondent for a mobile device, including, but not limited to, any 
iPhone, iPod touch, iPad, BlackBerry, Android, Amazon Kindle, or Microsoft Windows 
device.   

“Cameras” shall mean any Internet Protocol (“IP”) camera, cloud camera, or other 
Internet-accessible camera advertised, developed, branded, or sold by respondent, or on 
behalf of respondent, or any corporation, subsidiary, division or affiliate owned or 
controlled by respondent that transmits, or allows for the transmission of Live Feed 
Information over the Internet.   

4. 

“Clear(ly) and prominent(ly)” shall mean: 

A. 

B. 

In textual communications (e.g., printed publications or words displayed on the 
screen of a computer or device), the required disclosures are of a type, size, and 
location sufficiently noticeable for an ordinary consumer to read and comprehend 
them, in print that contrasts highly with the background on which they appear; 

In communications disseminated orally or through audible means (e.g., radio or 
streaming audio), the required disclosures are delivered in a volume and cadence 
sufficient for an ordinary consumer to hear and comprehend them; 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C. 

In communications disseminated through video means (e.g., television or 
streaming video), the required disclosures are in writing in a form consistent with 
subparagraph (A) of this definition and shall appear on the screen for a duration 
sufficient for an ordinary consumer to read and comprehend them, and in the 
same language as the predominant language that is used in the communication; 
and 

D. 

In all instances, the required disclosures (1) are presented in an understandable 
language and syntax; and (2) include nothing contrary to, inconsistent with, or in 
mitigation of any other statements or disclosures provided by respondent. 

“Commerce” shall mean commerce among the several States or with foreign nations, or 
in any Territory of the United States or in the District of Columbia, or between any such 
Territory and another, or between any such Territory and any State or foreign nation, or 
between the District of Columbia and any State or Territory or foreign nation, as defined 
in Section 4 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, 15 U.S.C. § 44. 

“Covered Device” shall mean: (1) any Internet-accessible electronic product or device, 
including but not limited to “Cameras,” advertised, developed, branded, or sold by 
respondent, or on behalf of respondent, or any corporation, subsidiary, division or 
affiliate owned or controlled by respondent that transmits or allows for the transmission 
of Covered Information over the Internet; and (2) any App or software advertised, 
developed, branded, or provided by respondent or any corporation, subsidiary, division or 
affiliate owned or controlled by respondent used to operate, manage, access, or view the 
product or device.   

“Covered Device Functionality” shall mean any capability of a Covered Device to 
capture, access, store, or transmit Covered Information.  

“Covered Information” shall mean individually-identifiable information from or about an 
individual consumer input into, stored on, captured with, accessed, or transmitted through 
a Covered Device, including but not limited to: (a) a first or last name; (b) a home or 
other physical address, including street name and name of city or town; (c) an email 
address or other online contact information, such as a user identifier or screen name; (d) 
photos; (e) videos; (f) pre-recorded and live-streaming audio; (g) an IP address, User ID 
or other persistent identifier; or (h) an authentication credential, such as a username or 
password.  

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

“Live Feed Information” shall mean video, audio, or audiovisual data. 

10. 

Unless otherwise specified, “respondent” shall mean TRENDnet, Inc., and its successors 
and assigns. 

3 

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
I. 

IT IS ORDERED that respondent and its officers, agents, representatives, and 

employees, directly or through any corporation, subsidiary, division, website, other device, or an 
affiliate owned or controlled by respondent, in or affecting commerce, shall not misrepresent in 
any manner, expressly or by implication: 

A. 

The extent to which respondent or its products or services maintain and protect: 

1. 

2. 

The security of Covered Device Functionality; 

The security, privacy, confidentiality, or integrity of any Covered 
Information; and 

B. 

The extent to which a consumer can control the security of any Covered 
Information input into, stored on, captured with, accessed, or transmitted by a 
Covered Device. 

II. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent shall, no later than the date of service of 
this Order, establish and implement, and thereafter maintain, a comprehensive security program 
that is reasonably designed to (1) address security risks that could result in unauthorized access 
to or use of Covered Device Functionality, and (2) protect the security, confidentiality, and 
integrity of Covered Information, whether collected by respondent, or input into, stored on, 
captured with, accessed, or transmitted through a Covered Device.  Such program, the content 
and implementation of which must be fully documented in writing, shall contain administrative, 
technical, and physical safeguards appropriate to respondent’s size and complexity, the nature 
and scope of respondent’s activities, and the sensitivity of the Covered Device Functionality or 
Covered Information, including:   

A. 

B. 

C. 

The designation of an employee or employees to coordinate and be accountable 
for the security program;   

The identification of material internal and external risks to the security of Covered 
Devices that could result in unauthorized access to or use of Covered Device 
Functionality, and assessment of the sufficiency of any safeguards in place to 
control these risks;   

The identification of material internal and external risks to the security, 
confidentiality, and integrity of Covered Information that could result in the 
unauthorized disclosure, misuse, loss, alteration, destruction, or other compromise 
of such information, whether such information is in respondent’s possession or is 
input into, stored on, captured with, accessed, or transmitted through a Covered 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
D. 

E. 

F. 

G. 

H. 

Device, and assessment of the sufficiency of any safeguards in place to control 
these risks; 

At a minimum, the risk assessments required by Subparts B and C should include 
consideration of risks in each area of relevant operation, including, but not limited 
to: (1) employee training and management; (2) product design, development, and 
research; (3) secure software design, development, and testing; and (4) review, 
assessment, and response to third-party security vulnerability reports;  

The design and implementation of reasonable safeguards to control the risks 
identified through the risk assessments, including but not limited to reasonable 
and appropriate software security testing techniques, such as: (1) vulnerability and 
penetration testing; (2) security architecture reviews; (3) code reviews; and (4) 
other reasonable and appropriate assessments, audits, reviews, or other tests to 
identify potential security failures and verify that access to Covered Information 
is restricted consistent with a user’s security settings;  

Regular testing or monitoring of the effectiveness of the safeguards’ key controls, 
systems, and procedures;   

The development and use of reasonable steps to select and retain service providers 
capable of maintaining security practices consistent with this Order, and requiring 
service providers, by contract, to establish and implement, and thereafter 
maintain, appropriate safeguards consistent with this Order; and   

The evaluation and adjustment of the security program in light of the results of the 
testing and monitoring required by Subpart F, any material changes to the 
respondent’s operations or business arrangements, or any other circumstances that 
respondent knows or has reason to know may have a material impact on the 
effectiveness of its security program.  

III.  

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, in connection with its compliance with Part II of this 
Order, respondent shall obtain initial and biennial assessments and reports (“Assessments”) from 
a qualified, objective, independent third-party professional, who uses procedures and standards 
generally accepted in the profession.  Professionals qualified to prepare such Assessments shall 
be: a person qualified as a Certified Secure Software Lifecycle Professional (CSSLP) with 
experience programming secure Covered Devices or other similar Internet-accessible consumer-
grade devices; or as a Certified Information System Security Professional (CISSP) with 
professional experience in the Software Development Security domain and in programming 
secure Covered Devices or other similar Internet-accessible consumer-grade devices; or a 
similarly qualified person or organization; or a similarly qualified person or organization 
approved by the Associate Director for Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Trade Commission, Washington, D.C. 20580.  The reporting period for the Assessments shall 
cover: (1) the first one hundred eighty (180) days after service of the Order for the initial 
Assessment; and (2) each two (2) year period thereafter for twenty (20) years after service of the 
Order for the biennial Assessments.  Each Assessment shall: 

A. 

B. 

C. 

D. 

Set forth the specific administrative, technical, and physical safeguards that 
respondent has implemented and maintained during the reporting period; 

Explain how such safeguards are appropriate to respondent’s size and complexity, 
the nature and scope of respondent’s activities, and the sensitivity of the Covered 
Device Functionality or Covered Information; 

Explain how the safeguards that have been implemented meet or exceed the 
protections required by Part II of this Order; and 

Certify that respondent’s security program is operating with sufficient 
effectiveness to provide reasonable assurance that the security of Covered Device 
Functionality and the security, confidentiality, and integrity of Covered 
Information is protected and has so operated throughout the reporting period. 

Each Assessment shall be prepared and completed within sixty (60) days after the end of the 
reporting period to which the Assessment applies.  Respondent shall provide the initial 
Assessment to the Associate Director for Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal 
Trade Commission, Washington, D.C. 20580, within ten (10) days after the Assessment has been 
prepared.  All subsequent biennial Assessments shall be retained by respondent until the Order is 
terminated and provided to the Associate Director of Enforcement within ten (10) days of 
request.  Unless otherwise directed by a representative of the Commission, the initial 
Assessment, and any subsequent Assessments requested, shall be sent by overnight courier (not 
the U.S. Postal Service) to the Associate Director of Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer 
Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, D.C. 
20580, with the subject line In the Matter of TRENDnet, Inc., FTC File No. 1223090, Docket 
No. C-4426.  Provided, however, that in lieu of overnight courier, notices may be sent by first-
class mail, but only if an electronic version of any such notice is contemporaneously sent to the 
Commission at Debrief@ftc.gov. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent shall: 

IV. 

A. 

Notify Affected Consumers, clearly and prominently, that their Cameras had a 
flaw that allowed third parties to access their Live Feed Information without 
inputting authentication credentials, despite their security setting choices; and 
provide instructions on how to remove this flaw.  Notification shall include, but 
not be limited to, each of the following means: 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 

2. 

3. 

On or before ten (10) days after the date of service of this Order and for 
two (2) years after the date of service of this Order, posting of a notice on 
its website; 

On or before ten (10) days after the date of service of this Order and for 
three (3) years after the date of service of this Order, informing Affected 
Consumers who complain or inquire about a Camera; and 

On or before ten (10) days after the date of service of this Order and for 
three (3) years after the date of service of this Order, informing Affected 
Consumers who register, or who have registered, their Camera with 
respondent; and 

B. 

Provide prompt and free support with clear and prominent contact information to 
help consumers update and/or uninstall a Camera.  For two (2) years after the date 
of service of this Order, this support shall include toll-free, telephonic and 
electronic mail support. 

V. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent shall maintain and upon request make 

available to the Federal Trade Commission for inspection and copying, a print or electronic copy 
of: 

A. 

For a period of five (5) years after the date of preparation of each Assessment 
required under Part III of this Order, all materials relied upon to prepare the 
Assessment, whether prepared by or on behalf of the respondent, including but 
not limited to all plans, reports, studies, reviews, audits, audit trails, policies, 
training materials, and assessments, and any other materials relating to 
respondent’s compliance with Part III of this Order, for the compliance period 
covered by such Assessment;   

B. 

Unless covered by V.A, for a period of five (5) years from the date of preparation 
or dissemination, whichever is later, all other documents relating to compliance 
with this Order, including but not limited to: 

1. 

All advertisements, promotional materials, installation and user guides, 
and packaging containing any representations covered by this Order, as 
well as all materials used or relied upon in making or disseminating the 
representation; and 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 

Any documents, whether prepared by or on behalf of respondent, that 
contradict, qualify, or call into question respondent’s compliance with this 
Order. 

VI. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent shall deliver a copy of this Order to all 

(1) current and future subsidiaries, (2) current and future principals, officers, directors, and 
managers, (3) current and future employees, agents, and representatives having responsibilities 
relating to the subject matter of this Order, and (4) current and future manufacturers and service 
providers of the Covered Products.  Respondent shall deliver this Order to such current 
subsidiaries, personnel, manufacturers, and service providers within thirty (30) days after service 
of this Order, and to such future subsidiaries, personnel, manufacturers, and service providers 
within thirty (30) days after the person assumes such position or responsibilities.  For any 
business entity resulting from any change in structure set forth in Part VII, delivery shall be at 
least ten (10) days prior to the change in structure.  Respondent must secure a signed and dated 
statement acknowledging receipt of this Order, within thirty (30) days of delivery, from all 
persons receiving a copy of the Order pursuant to this section.   

VII. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent shall notify the Commission at least 

thirty (30) days prior to any change in the corporation(s) that may affect compliance obligations 
arising under this Order, including, but not limited to: a dissolution, assignment, sale, merger, or 
other action that would result in the emergence of a successor corporation; the creation or 
dissolution of a subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts or practices subject to this 
Order; the proposed filing of a bankruptcy petition; or a change in the corporate name or address.  
Provided, however, that, with respect to any proposed change in the corporation(s) about which 
respondent learns fewer than thirty (30) days prior to the date such action is to take place, 
respondent shall notify the Commission as soon as is practicable after obtaining such knowledge.  
Unless otherwise directed by a representative of the Commission, all notices required by this Part 
shall be sent by overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal Service) to the Associate Director of 
Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania 
Avenue NW, Washington, D.C. 20580, with the subject line In the Matter of TRENDnet, Inc., 
FTC File No. 1223090, Docket No. C-4426.  Provided, however, that in lieu of overnight 
courier, notices may be sent by first-class mail, but only if an electronic version of any such 
notice is contemporaneously sent to the Commission at Debrief@ftc.gov.   

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VIII. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent within sixty (60) days after the date of 

service of this Order, shall file with the Commission a true and accurate report, in writing, setting 
forth in detail the manner and form of its compliance with this Order.  Within ten (10) days of 
receipt of written notice from a representative of the Commission, it shall submit an additional 
true and accurate written report. 

IX. 

This Order will terminate on January 16, 2034, or twenty (20) years from the most recent 

date that the United States or the Commission files a complaint (with or without an 
accompanying consent decree) in federal court alleging any violation of the Order, whichever 
comes later; provided, however, that the filing of such a complaint will not affect the duration of: 

A. 

B. 

C. 

Any Part in this Order that terminates in fewer than twenty (20) years; 

This Order’s application to any respondent that is not named as a defendant in 
such complaint; and 

This Order if such complaint is filed after the Order has terminated pursuant to 
this Part. 

Provided, further, that if such complaint is dismissed or a federal court rules that respondent did 
not violate any provision of the Order, and the dismissal or ruling is either not appealed or 
upheld on appeal, then the Order as to such respondent will terminate according to this Part as 
though the complaint had never been filed, except that the Order will not terminate between the 
date such complaint is filed and the later of the deadline for appealing such dismissal or ruling 
and the date such dismissal or ruling is upheld on appeal. 

By the Commission. 

SEAL 
ISSUED:  January 16, 2014 

Donald S. Clark 
Secretary 

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
