COMMISSIONERS: 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION 

Edith Ramirez, Chairwoman 
Julie Brill 
Maureen K. Ohlhausen 
Joshua D. Wright 
Terrell McSweeny 

__________________________________________ 

112 3095 

In the Matter of 

GENELINK, INC., 

 ) 
 )  
 ) 
 ) 
 ) 
a corporation, also d/b/a 
      GENELINK BIOSCIENCES, INC. 
 ) 
__________________________________________ ) 

DOCKET NO.  C-4456 

DECISION AND ORDER 

The Federal Trade Commission (“Commission”) having initiated an investigation of 
certain acts and practices of the respondent named in the caption hereof, and the respondent 
having been furnished thereafter with a copy of a draft complaint which the Bureau of Consumer 
Protection proposed to present to the Commission for its consideration and which, if issued by 
the Commission, would charge the respondent with violation of the Federal Trade Commission 
Act, 15 U.S.C. § 45 et seq.; and 

The respondent, its attorney, and counsel for the Commission having thereafter executed 
an agreement containing a consent order (“consent agreement”), which includes:  a statement by 
the respondent that it neither admits nor denies any of the allegations in the draft complaint, 
except as specifically stated in the consent agreement, and only for purposes of this action, 
admits the facts necessary to establish jurisdiction; and waivers and other provisions as required 
by the Commission’s Rules; and 

The Commission having thereafter considered the matter and having determined that it 
had reason to believe that the respondent has violated the Federal Trade Commission Act, and 
that a complaint should issue stating its charges in that respect, and having thereupon accepted 
the executed consent agreement and placed such consent agreement on the public record for a 
period of thirty (30) days for the receipt and consideration of public comments, and having duly 
considered the comments filed thereafter by interested persons pursuant to Commission Rule 
2.34, 16 C.F.R. § 2.34, now in further conformity with the procedure prescribed in Commission 
Rule 2.34, the Commission hereby issues its complaint, makes the following jurisdictional 
findings and enters the following order: 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Respondent GeneLink, Inc. is a Pennsylvania corporation with its principal office or 
place of business at 8250 Exchange Drive, Suite 120, Orlando, Florida 32809. 

2.  The Federal Trade Commission has jurisdiction of the subject matter of this 

proceeding and of the respondent, and this proceeding is in the public interest. 

ORDER 

DEFINITIONS 

For purposes of this order, the following definitions shall apply: 

1. 
Unless otherwise specified, “respondent” means GeneLink, Inc., a corporation, also 
doing business as GeneLink Biosciences, Inc., its successors and assigns, and its officers, agents, 
representatives, and employees.   

“Commerce” means as defined in Section 4 of the Federal Trade Commission Act (“FTC 

2. 
Act”), 15 U.S.C. § 44. 

3. 
“Covered Product” means any drug, food, or cosmetic that is:  (a) customized or 
personalized for a consumer based on that consumer’s DNA or SNP (single nucleotide 
polymorphism) assessment, including, but not limited to, LifeMap ME DNA Customized 
Nutritional Supplements, GeneWize Nutritional Supplements, LifeMap ME DNA Customized 
Skin Repair Serum, and GeneWize Customized Skin Repair Serum; or (b) promoted to modulate 
the effect of genes. 

“Covered Assessment” means any genetic test or assessment, including, but not limited 

4. 
to, the Healthy Aging Assessment and LifeMap Healthy Aging Assessment. 

“Essentially Equivalent Product” means a product that contains the identical ingredients, 

5. 
except for inactive ingredients (e.g., binders, colors, fillers, excipients), in the same form and 
dosage, and with the same route of administration (e.g., orally, sublingually), as the Covered 
Product; provided that the Covered Product may contain additional ingredients if reliable 
scientific evidence generally accepted by experts in the field demonstrates that the amount and 
combination of additional ingredients is unlikely to impede or inhibit the effectiveness of the 
ingredients in the Essentially Equivalent Product. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

“Drug” means as defined in Section 15(c) of the FTC Act, 15 U.S.C. § 55(c). 

“Food” means as defined in Section 15(b) of the FTC Act, 15 U.S.C. § 55(b). 

“Cosmetic” means as defined in Section 15(e) of the FTC Act, 15 U.S.C. § 55(e). 

“Adequate and well-controlled human clinical study” means a human clinical study that: 

9. 
is randomized and adequately controlled; utilizes valid end points generally recognized by 
experts in the relevant disease field; yields statistically significant between-group results; and is 
conducted by persons qualified by training and experience to conduct such a study.  Such study 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
shall be double-blind and placebo-controlled; provided, however, that, any study of a 
conventional food need not be placebo-controlled or double-blind if placebo control or blinding 
cannot be effectively implemented given the nature of the intervention.  For the purposes of this 
proviso, “conventional food” does not include any dietary supplement, any customized or 
personalized product based on a consumer’s DNA or SNP assessment, or any product promoted 
to modulate the effect of genes.  Respondent shall have the burden of proving that placebo-
control or blinding cannot be effectively implemented. 

“Endorsement” means as defined in the Commission’s Guides Concerning the Use of 

10. 
Endorsements and Testimonials in Advertising, 16 C.F.R. § 255.0. 

“Licensee” means a person or entity, including a sublicensee, with whom respondent or 

11. 
its licensee has a business agreement. 

12. 

“Affiliate” means any person or entity who participates in an Affiliate Program. 

13. 
“Affiliate Program” means any arrangement whereby any person or entity:  (a) provides 
respondent with, or refers to respondent, potential or actual customers; or (b) otherwise markets, 
advertises, or offers for sale any product or service on behalf of respondent. 

14. 
“Personal Information” shall mean individually identifiable information from or about an 
individual consumer, including, but not limited to:  (a) a first and last name; (b) a home or other 
physical address, including street name and name of city or town; (c) an email address or other 
online contact information, such as an instant messaging user identifier or a screen name; (d) a 
telephone number; (e) a Social Security number; (f) a bank account, debit card, or credit card 
account number; (g) a persistent identifier, such as a customer number held in a “cookie” or 
processor serial number; or (h) clinical laboratory testing information, including test results.  For 
the purpose of this provision, a “consumer” shall mean any person, including, but not limited to, 
any user of respondent’s services, any employee of respondent, or any individual seeking to 
become an employee, where “employee” shall mean an agent, servant, salesperson, associate, 
independent contractor, or other person directly or indirectly under the control of respondent. 

15. 

The term “including” in this order means “without limitation.” 

The terms “and” and “or” in this order shall be construed conjunctively or disjunctively 

16. 
as necessary, to make the applicable phrase or sentence inclusive rather than exclusive. 

I. 

IT IS ORDERED that respondent, directly or through any corporation, partnership, 

subsidiary, division, licensee, affiliate, trade name, or other device, in connection with the 
manufacturing, labeling, advertising, promotion, offering for sale, sale, or distribution of any 
Covered Product, in or affecting commerce, shall not make any representation, in any manner, 
expressly or by implication, including through the use of a product name, endorsement, 
depiction, illustration, trademark, or trade name, that such product is effective in the diagnosis, 
cure, mitigation, treatment, or prevention of any disease, including, but not limited to, any 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
representation that the product will treat, prevent, mitigate, or reduce the risk of diabetes, heart 
disease, arthritis, or insomnia, unless the representation is non-misleading and, at the time the 
representation is made, respondent possesses and relies upon competent and reliable scientific 
evidence that substantiates that the representation is true.  For purposes of this Part I, “competent 
and reliable scientific evidence” shall consist of at least two adequate and well-controlled human 
clinical studies of the Covered Product, or of an Essentially Equivalent Product, conducted by 
different researchers, independently of each other, that conform to acceptable designs and 
protocols and whose results, when considered in light of the entire body of relevant and reliable 
scientific evidence, are sufficient to substantiate that the representation is true; provided that, if 
the respondent represents that such product is effective in the diagnosis, cure, mitigation, 
treatment, prevention, or the reduction of risk of disease for persons with a particular genetic 
variation or single nucleotide polymorphism (“SNP”), then studies required under this Part I 
shall be conducted on human subjects with such genetic variation or SNP.  Respondent shall 
have the burden of proving that a product satisfies the definition of an Essentially Equivalent 
Product. 

II. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent, directly or through any corporation, 

partnership, subsidiary, division, licensee, affiliate, trade name, or other device, in connection 
with the manufacturing, labeling, advertising, promotion, offering for sale, sale, or distribution of 
any Covered Product or any Covered Assessment, in or affecting commerce, shall not make any 
representation, in any manner, expressly or by implication, including through the use of a 
product name, endorsement, depiction, or illustration, other than representations covered under 
Part I of this order, about the health benefits, performance, or efficacy of any Covered Product or 
any Covered Assessment, unless the representation is non-misleading, and, at the time of making 
such representation, respondent possesses and relies upon competent and reliable scientific 
evidence that is sufficient in quality and quantity based on standards generally accepted in the 
relevant scientific fields, when considered in light of the entire body of relevant and reliable 
scientific evidence, to substantiate that the representation is true.  For purposes of this Part II, 
competent and reliable scientific evidence means tests, analyses, research, or studies that have 
been conducted and evaluated in an objective manner by qualified persons and are generally 
accepted in the profession to yield accurate and reliable results. 

III. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent, directly or through any corporation, 

partnership, subsidiary, division, licensee, affiliate, trade name, or other device, in connection 
with the manufacturing, labeling, advertising, promotion, offering for sale, sale, or distribution of 
any Covered Product or any Covered Assessment, in or affecting commerce, shall not 
misrepresent, in any manner, directly or indirectly, expressly or by implication, including 
through the use of endorsements: 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. 

B. 

The existence, contents, validity, results, or conclusions of any test, study, or 
research; or 

That the benefits of any Covered Product or Covered Assessment are 
scientifically proven. 

IV. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that: 

A. 

B. 

Nothing in Parts I through III of this order shall prohibit respondent from making 
any representation for any product that is specifically permitted in labeling for 
such product by regulations promulgated by the Food and Drug Administration 
pursuant to the Nutrition Labeling and Education Act of 1990 or permitted under 
Sections 303-304 of the Food and Drug Administration Modernization Act of 
1997; and 

Nothing in Parts I through III of this order shall prohibit respondent from making 
any representation for any drug that is permitted in labeling for such drug under 
any tentative final or final standard promulgated by the Food and Drug 
Administration, or any new drug application approved by the Food and Drug 
Administration. 

V. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent, directly or through any corporation, 

partnership, subsidiary, division, licensee, affiliate, trade name, or other device, in connection 
with the manufacturing, labeling, advertising, promotion, offering for sale, sale, or distribution of 
any Covered Product or any Covered Assessment, in or affecting commerce, shall not provide to 
any person or entity the means and instrumentalities with which to make, directly or by 
implication, any representations prohibited by Parts I through III of this order.  For purposes of 
this Part, “means and instrumentalities” shall mean any information, document, or article 
referring or relating to any Covered Product or any Covered Assessment, including, but not 
limited to, any advertising, labeling, promotional, or purported substantiation materials, for use 
by licensees or affiliates in their marketing of any Covered Product or any Covered Assessment 
in or affecting commerce. 

VI. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent, directly or through any corporation, 

partnership, subsidiary, division, trade name, or other device, in connection with the 
manufacturing, advertising, labeling, promotion, offering for sale, sale, or distribution of any 
product or service, in or affecting commerce, shall take steps sufficient to ensure compliance 
with Parts I through III of this order.  Such steps shall include, at a minimum: 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  

Establishing, implementing, and thereafter maintaining a system to monitor and 
review its affiliates’ representations and disclosures to ensure compliance with 
Parts I through III of this order.  The system shall be implemented as follows: 

1.  

No later than thirty (30) days after the date of service of this order, and, on 
a semi-annual basis thereafter, respondent shall determine those affiliates 
that generate the most sales for respondent.  For respondent’s top fifty (50) 
revenue-generating affiliates, respondent shall: 
(a)  Monitor and review each affiliate’s web sites on at least a monthly 

basis at times not disclosed in advance to its affiliates and in a 
manner reasonably calculated not to disclose the source of the 
monitoring activity at the time it is being conducted; and 

(b) 

Conduct online monitoring and review of the Internet on at least a 
monthly basis, including, but not limited to, social networks such 
as Facebook, microsites such as Twitter, and video sites such as 
YouTube, for any representations by such affiliates. 

2.  

For the remainder of respondent’s affiliates, no later than thirty (30) days 
after the date of service of this order, and, on a semi-annual basis 
thereafter, respondent shall select a random sample of fifty (50) affiliates.  
Respondent shall: 

(a)  Monitor and review each of these randomly selected affiliates’ web 

sites on at least a monthly basis at times not disclosed in advance 
to its affiliates and in a manner reasonably calculated not to 
disclose the source of the monitoring activity at the time it is being 
conducted; and 

(b) 

Conduct online monitoring and review of the Internet on at least a 
monthly basis, including, but not limited to, social networks such 
as Facebook, microsites such as Twitter, and video sites such as 
YouTube, for any representations by such affiliates. 

B.   Within seven (7) days of reasonably concluding that an affiliate has made 

representations that the affiliate knew or should have known violated Parts I, II, or 
III of this order, respondent shall terminate the affiliate from any affiliate program 
and cease payment to the affiliate; provided, however, that nothing in this subpart 
shall prevent respondent from honoring respondent’s payment obligation to an 
affiliate pursuant to a contract executed by the affiliate and respondent prior to the 
date of service of the order; and 

C.  

Creating, and thereafter, maintaining, and within fourteen (14) days of receipt of a 
written request from a representative of the Federal Trade Commission, making 
available for inspection and copying, reports sufficient to show compliance with 
this Part of the order.   

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VII. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent, directly or through any corporation, 

partnership, subsidiary, division, licensee, affiliate, trade name, or other device, in connection 
with the manufacturing, advertising, labeling, promotion, offering for sale, sale, or distribution of 
any product or service, in or affecting commerce, shall not misrepresent in any manner, 
expressly or by implication, the extent to which it maintains and protects the privacy, 
confidentiality, security, or integrity of Personal Information collected from or about consumers.  

VIII. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent, directly or through any corporation, 
partnership, subsidiary, division, trade name, or other device, shall, no later than the date of 
service of this order, establish and implement, and thereafter maintain, a comprehensive 
information security program that is reasonably designed to protect the security, confidentiality, 
and integrity of Personal Information collected from or about consumers.  Such program, the 
content and implementation of which must be fully documented in writing, shall contain 
administrative, technical, and physical safeguards appropriate to respondent’s size and 
complexity, the nature and scope of respondent’s activities, and the sensitivity of the Personal 
Information respondent collects from or about consumers, including:   

A. 

B. 

C. 

D. 

The designation of an employee or employees to coordinate and be accountable 
for the information security program; 

The identification of material internal and external risks to the security, 
confidentiality, and integrity of Personal Information that could result in the 
unauthorized disclosure, misuse, loss, alteration, destruction, or other compromise 
of such information, and assessment of the sufficiency of any safeguards in place 
to control these risks.  At a minimum, this risk assessment should include 
consideration of risks in each area of relevant operation, including, but not limited 
to:  (1) employee training and management; (2) information systems, including 
network and software design, information processing, storage, transmission, and 
disposal; and (3) prevention, detection, and response to attacks, intrusions, or 
other systems failures; 

The design and implementation of reasonable safeguards to control the 
risks identified through risk assessment, and regular testing or monitoring 
of the effectiveness of the safeguards’ key controls, systems, and 
procedures; 

The development and use of reasonable steps to select and retain service 
providers capable of appropriately safeguarding Personal Information 
received from respondent, and requiring service providers by contract to 
implement and maintain appropriate safeguards; and 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
E. 

The evaluation and adjustment of respondent’s information security program in 
light of the results of the testing and monitoring required by subpart C, any 
material changes to respondent’s operations or business arrangements, or any 
other circumstances that respondent knows or has reason to know may have a 
material impact on the effectiveness of its information security program.  

IX. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, in connection with its compliance with Part VIII of 
this order, respondent shall obtain initial and biennial assessments and reports (“Assessments”) 
from a qualified, objective, independent third-party professional who uses procedures and 
standards generally accepted in the profession.  Professionals qualified to prepare such 
assessments shall be:  a person qualified as a Certified Information System Security Professional 
(CISSP) or as a Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA); a person holding Global 
Information Assurance Certification (GIAC) from the SysAdmin, Audit, Network, Security 
(SANS) Institute; or a qualified person or organization approved by the Associate Director for 
Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, Washington, D.C. 
20580.  The reporting period for the Assessments shall cover:  (1) the first one hundred and 
eighty (180) days after service of the order for the initial Assessment, and (2) each two (2) year 
period thereafter for twenty (20) years after service of the order for the biennial Assessments.  
Each Assessment shall: 

A. 

B. 

C. 

D. 

Set forth the specific administrative, technical, and physical safeguards that 
respondent has implemented and maintained during the reporting period; 

Explain how such safeguards are appropriate to respondent’s size and complexity, 
the nature and scope of its activities, and the sensitivity of the Personal 
Information collected from or about consumers; 

Explain how the safeguards that have been implemented meet or exceed the 
protections required by Part VIII of this order; and 

Certify that respondent’s security program is operating with sufficient 
effectiveness to provide reasonable assurance that the security, confidentiality, 
and integrity of Personal Information is protected and has so operated throughout 
the reporting period. 

Each Assessment shall be prepared and completed within sixty (60) days after the end of the 
reporting period to which the Assessment applies.  The respondent shall provide its initial 
Assessment to the Associate Director for Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal 
Trade Commission, Washington, D.C. 20580, within ten (10) days after the Assessment has been 
completed.  All subsequent biennial Assessments shall be retained by respondent until the order 
is terminated and provided to the Associate Director for Enforcement within ten (10) days of 
request.  Unless otherwise directed by a representative of the Commission in writing, the initial 
Assessment, and any subsequent Assessments requested, shall be sent by overnight courier (not 
the U.S. Postal Service) to:  Associate Director for Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer 
Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, D.C. 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
20580.  The subject line must begin:  In the Matter of GeneLink, Inc., FTC File No. 112 3095.  
Provided, however, that in lieu of overnight courier, notices may be sent by first-class mail, but 
only if an electronic version of any such notice is contemporaneously sent to the Commission at 
Debrief@ftc.gov.   

X. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent GeneLink, Inc., and its successors and 
assigns, shall deliver a copy of this order to all current and future principals, officers, directors, 
Scientific Advisory Board members, and licensees, and to employees having managerial 
responsibilities with respect to the subject matter of this order, and shall secure from each such 
person a signed and dated statement acknowledging receipt of the order.  Respondent GeneLink, 
Inc., and its successors and assigns, shall deliver this order to current personnel within thirty (30) 
days after the date of service of this order, and to future personnel within thirty (30) days after 
the person assumes such position or responsibilities.  

XI. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent GeneLink, Inc., and its successors and 

assigns, shall maintain and, upon request, make available to a representative to the Commission 
for inspection and copying:  

A. 

For a period of three (3) years after the date of preparation of each Assessment 
required under Part IX of this order, all materials relied upon to prepare the 
Assessment, whether prepared by or on behalf of respondent, including, but not 
limited to, all plans, reports, studies, reviews, audits, audit trails, policies, training 
materials, and assessments, and any other materials relating to respondent’s 
compliance with Parts VIII and IX of this order, for the compliance period 
covered by such Assessment;   

B. 

Unless covered by Part XI.A, for a period of five (5) years after the last date of 
dissemination of any representation covered by this order, maintain and upon 
reasonable notice make available to the Commission for inspection and copying: 

1. 

2. 

3. 

All advertisements and promotional materials containing the 
representation, including, but not limited to, all marketing and training 
materials distributed to licensees and affiliates; 

All materials that were relied upon in disseminating the representation; 
and 

All tests, reports, studies, surveys, demonstrations, or other evidence in 
that respondent’s possession or control that contradict, qualify, or call into 
question the representation, or the basis relied upon for the representation, 
including complaints and other communications with consumers or with 
governmental or consumer protection organizations. 

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
XII. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent GeneLink, Inc., and its successors and 

assigns, shall notify the Commission at least thirty (30) days prior to any change in the 
corporation that may affect compliance obligations arising under this order, including, but not 
limited to, dissolution, assignment, sale, merger, or other action that would result in the 
emergence of a successor corporation; the creation or dissolution of a subsidiary, parent, or 
affiliate that engages in any acts or practices subject to this order; the proposed filing of a 
bankruptcy petition; or a change in the corporate name or address.  Provided, however, that, with 
respect to any proposed change in the corporation about which respondent GeneLink, Inc., and 
its successors and assigns, learns less than thirty (30) days prior to the date such action is to take 
place, respondent GeneLink, Inc., and its successors and assigns, shall notify the Commission as 
soon as is practicable after obtaining such knowledge.  Unless otherwise directed by a 
representative of the Commission in writing, all notices required by this Part shall be emailed to 
Debrief@ftc.gov or sent by overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal Service) to:  Associate 
Director for Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 600 
Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, D.C. 20580.  The subject line must begin:  In the Matter 
of GeneLink, Inc., FTC File No. 112 3095. 

XIII. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent GeneLink, Inc., and its successors and 
assigns, within sixty (60) days after service of this order, shall file with the Commission a true 
and accurate report, in writing, setting forth in detail the manner and form of its own compliance 
with this order.  Within ten (10) days of receipt of written notice from a representative of the 
Commission, it shall submit additional true and accurate written reports. 

XIV. 

This order will terminate on May 8, 2034, or twenty (20) years from the most recent date 

that the United States or the Federal Trade Commission files a complaint (with or without an 
accompanying consent decree) in federal court alleging any violation of the order, whichever 
comes later; provided, however, that the filing of such a complaint will not affect the duration of: 

A.  

Any Part in this order that terminates in less than twenty (20) years; 

B.  

C.  

This order’s application to any respondent that is not named as a defendant in 
such complaint; and 

This order if such complaint is filed after the order has terminated pursuant to this 
Part. 

10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Provided, further, that if such complaint is dismissed or a federal court rules that respondent did 
not violate any provision of the order, and the dismissal or ruling is either not appealed or upheld 
on appeal, then the order will terminate according to this Part as though the complaint had never 
been filed, except that the order will not terminate between the date such complaint is filed and 
the later of the deadline  for appealing such dismissal or ruling and the date such dismissal or 
ruling is upheld on appeal. 

By the Commission, Commissioner Ohlhausen dissenting, and Commissioner McSweeny 

not participating. 

SEAL: 
ISSUED:  May 8, 2014 

Donald S. Clark 
Secretary 

11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
