UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION 

122 3095 

COMMISSIONERS:  

Edith Ramirez, Chairwoman 
Julie Brill 
Maureen K. Ohlhausen 
Joshua D. Wright 
Terrell McSweeny 

_________________________________________ 

In the Matter of 

AJAY PRASAD 

GMR TRANSCRIPTION SERVICES, INC., 
a corporation, 

 ) 
 )  
 ) 
 ) 
 ) 
 ) 
 ) 
 ) 
 ) 
 ) 
SHREEKANT SRIVASTAVA,  
 ) 
individually and as officers of  
 ) 
 ) 
GMR Transcription Services, Inc.   
__________________________________________ ) 

and 

DOCKET NO. C-4482 

DECISION AND ORDER 

 The Federal Trade Commission having initiated an investigation of certain acts and 
practices of the Respondents named in the caption hereof, and the Respondents having been 
furnished thereafter with a copy of a draft Complaint that the Bureau of Consumer Protection 
proposed to present to the Commission for its consideration and which, if issued by the 
Commission, would charge the Respondents with violation of the Federal Trade Commission 
Act, 15 U.S.C. § 45 et seq; 

The Respondents, their attorneys, and counsel for the Commission having thereafter 

executed an Agreement Containing Consent Order (“Consent Agreement”), an admission by the 
Respondents of all the jurisdictional facts set forth in the aforesaid draft Complaint, a statement 
that the signing of said Consent Agreement is for settlement purposes only and does not 
constitute an admission by Respondents that the law has been violated as alleged in such 
Complaint, or that the facts as alleged in such Complaint, other than jurisdictional facts, are true, 
and waivers and other provisions as required by the Commission’s Rules; and 

The Commission having thereafter considered the matter and having determined that it 

has reason to believe that the Respondents have violated the said Act, and that a Complaint 
should issue stating its charges in that respect, and having thereupon accepted the executed 

1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consent Agreement and placed such Consent Agreement on the public record for a period of 
thirty (30) days, and having duly considered the comments filed thereafter by interested persons 
pursuant to Commission Rule 2.34, 16 C.F.R. § 2.34, now in further conformity with the 
procedure described in Commission Rule 2.34, the Commission hereby issues its Complaint, 
makes the following jurisdictional findings and enters the following Order: 

1. 

2. 

Respondent GMR is a California corporation with its principal office or place of business 
at 2512 Chambers Road, Suite 206, Tustin, CA 92780. 

Respondents Ajay Prasad (“Prasad”) and Shreekant Srivastava (“Srivastava”) are co-
owners of GMR and President and Vice President of the company, respectively. 
Individually or in concert with others, they formulate, direct, or control the policies, acts, 
or practices of respondent GMR.  Their principal place of business is the same as GMR’s. 

ORDER 

DEFINITIONS 

For purposes of this order, the following definitions shall apply: 

1. 

2. 

3. 

Unless otherwise specified, “respondents” shall mean GMR Transcription Services, Inc., 
and its successors and assigns, and Ajay Prasad and Shreekant Srivastava.   

“Commerce” shall mean as defined in Section 4 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, 
15 U.S.C. § 44. 

“Personal information” shall mean individually identifiable information from or about an 
individual consumer including, but not limited to:  (a) a first and last name; (b) a home or 
other physical address, including street name and name of city or town; (c) an email 
address or other online contact information, such as an instant messaging user identifier 
or a screen name; (d) a telephone number; (e) a Social Security number; (f) a driver’s 
license number or other government-issued identification number; (g) a bank account, 
debit card, or credit card account number; (h) a persistent identifier, such as a customer 
number held in a “cookie” or processor serial number; and (i) medical information about 
a consumer including, but not limited to, prescription information, clinical laboratory 
testing information, health insurance information, physician examination notes, and 
medical history.  For the purpose of this provision, a “consumer” shall mean any person, 
including, but not limited to, any user of respondents’ services, any person whose 
information is contained in the files of a user of respondents’ services, and respondents’ 
employees and service providers. 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
I. 

IT IS ORDERED that respondents and their officers, agents, representatives, and 
employees, directly or through any corporation, subsidiary, division, website, or other device or 
affiliate owned or controlled by respondents, shall not misrepresent in any manner, expressly or 
by implication, the extent to which respondents use, maintain, and protect the privacy, 
confidentiality, security, or integrity of personal information collected from or about consumers. 

II. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent GMR Transcription Services, Inc., its 

successors and assigns, and any business entity that respondent Ajay Prasad or Shreekant 
Srivastava controls, directly or indirectly, that collects, maintains, or stores personal information 
from or about consumers, shall, no later than the date of service of this order, establish and 
implement, and thereafter maintain, a comprehensive information security program that is 
reasonably designed to protect the security, confidentiality, and integrity of personal information 
collected from or about consumers.  Such program, the content and implementation of which 
must be fully documented in writing, shall contain administrative, technical, and physical 
safeguards appropriate to respondents’ or the business entity’s size and complexity, the nature 
and scope of respondents’ or the business entity’s activities, and the sensitivity of the personal 
information collected from or about consumers, including:   

A. 

B. 

the designation of an employee or employees to coordinate and be accountable for 
the information security program; 

the identification of material internal and external risks to the security, 
confidentiality, and integrity of personal information that could result in the 
unauthorized disclosure, misuse, loss, alteration, destruction, or other compromise 
of such information, and assessment of the sufficiency of any safeguards in place 
to control these risks.  At a minimum, this risk assessment should include 
consideration of risks in each area of relevant operation, including, but not limited 
to:  (1) employee training and management; (2) information systems, including 
network and software design, information processing, storage, transmission, and 
disposal; and (3) prevention, detection, and response to attacks, intrusions, or 
other systems failures; 

C. 

the design and implementation of reasonable safeguards to control the 
risks identified through risk assessment, and regular testing or monitoring 
of the effectiveness of the safeguards’ key controls, systems, and 
procedures; 

D.        the development and use of reasonable steps to select and retain service providers 

capable of appropriately safeguarding personal information they receive from 
respondents, and requiring service providers by contract to implement and 
maintain appropriate safeguards; and 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
E. 

the evaluation and adjustment of the information security program in light 
of the results of the testing and monitoring required by subpart C, any 
material changes to any operations or business arrangements, or any other 
circumstances that respondents know or have reason to know may have a 
material impact on the effectiveness of the information security program. 

III. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, in connection with its compliance with Part II of this 
order, respondents shall obtain initial and biennial assessments and reports (“Assessments”) from 
a qualified, objective, independent third-party professional, who uses procedures and standards 
generally accepted in the profession.  Professionals qualified to prepare such assessments shall 
be:  a person qualified as a Certified Information System Security Professional (CISSP) or as a 
Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA); a person holding Global Information Assurance 
Certification (GIAC) from the SANS Institute; or a qualified person or organization approved by 
the Associate Director for Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade 
Commission, Washington, D.C. 20580.  The reporting period for the Assessments shall cover:  
(1) the first one hundred and eighty (180) days after service of the order for the initial 
Assessment, and (2) each two (2) year period thereafter for twenty (20) years after service of the 
order for the biennial Assessments.  Each Assessment shall: 

A. 

B. 

C. 

D. 

set forth the specific administrative, technical, and physical safeguards that 
respondents have implemented and maintained during the reporting period; 

explain how such safeguards are appropriate to respondents’ or the business 
entity’s size and complexity, the nature and scope of respondents’ or the business 
entity’s activities, and the sensitivity of the personal information collected from or 
about consumers; 

explain how the safeguards that have been implemented meet or exceed the 
protections required by Part II of this order; and 

certify that the security program is operating with sufficient effectiveness to 
provide reasonable assurance that the security, confidentiality, and integrity of 
personal information is protected and has so operated throughout the reporting 
period. 

Each Assessment shall be prepared and completed within sixty (60) days after the end of the 
reporting period to which the Assessment applies.  Respondents shall provide the initial 
Assessment to the Associate Director for Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal 
Trade Commission, Washington, D.C. 20580, within ten (10) days after the Assessment has been 
completed.  All subsequent biennial Assessments shall be retained by respondents until the order 
is terminated and provided to the Associate Director for Enforcement within ten (10) days of 
request.  Unless otherwise directed by a representative of the Commission, the initial 
Assessment, and any subsequent Assessments requested, shall be sent by overnight courier (not 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the U.S. Postal Service) to the Associate Director of Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer 
Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, D.C. 
20580, with the subject line In the matter of GMR Transcription Services, Inc., FTC File No. 
1123120.  Provided, however, that in lieu of overnight courier, notices may be sent by first-class 
mail, but only if an electronic version of any such notice is contemporaneously sent to the 
Commission at Debrief@ftc.gov. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondents shall maintain and, upon request, make 

available to the Federal Trade Commission for inspection and copying:  

IV. 

A. 

for a period of three (3) years after the date of preparation of each Assessment 
required under Part III of this order, all materials relied upon to prepare the 
Assessment, whether prepared by or on behalf of respondents, including but not 
limited to, all plans, reports, studies, reviews, audits, audit trails, policies, training 
materials, and assessments, and any other materials relating to respondents’ 
compliance with Parts II and III of this order, for the compliance period covered 
by such Assessment;   

B. 

unless covered by IV.A, for a period of five (5) years from the date of preparation 
or dissemination, whichever is later, a print or electronic copy of each document 
relating to compliance with this order, including but not limited to: 

1. 

2. 

all advertisements and promotional materials containing any 
representations covered by this order, with all materials used or 
relied upon in making or disseminating the representation; and 

any documents, whether prepared by or on behalf of respondents, 
that contradict, qualify, or call into question compliance with this 
order. 

V. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondents shall deliver copies of the order as 

directed below: 

A. 

Respondents shall deliver a copy of this order to (1) all current and future 
principals, officers, directors, and managers, (2) all current and future employees, 
agents, and representatives having responsibilities relating to the subject matter of 
this order, and (3) any business entity resulting from any change in structure set 
forth in Part VI.  Respondents shall deliver this order to such current personnel 
within thirty (30) days after service of this order, and to such future personnel 
within thirty (30) days after the person assumes such position or responsibilities.  
For any business entity resulting from any change in structure set forth in Part VI, 
delivery shall be at least ten (10) days prior to the change in structure. 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. 

Respondents shall secure a signed and dated statement acknowledging receipt of 
this order, within thirty (30) days of delivery, from all persons receiving a copy of 
the order pursuant to this section. 

VI.  

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondents Prasad and Srivastava, for a period of 

ten (10) years after the date of issuance of the order, shall notify the Commission of the 
following:  (a) Any changes to respondent Prasad’s or respondent Srivastava’s residence, mailing 
addresses and/or telephone numbers, within ten (l0) days of the date of such change; (b) Any 
changes in respondent Prasad’s or respondent Srivastava’s employment status (including self-
employment), and any changes in ownership in any business entity, within ten (10) days of the 
date of such change.  Such notice shall include:  the name and address of each business that 
respondent Prasad or respondent Srivastava is affiliated with, employed by, creates or forms, 
incorporates, or performs services for; a detailed description of the nature of the business; and a 
detailed description of respondent Prasad’s or respondent Srivastava’s duties and responsibilities 
in connection with the business or employment; and (c) Any changes in respondent Prasad’s or 
respondent Srivastava’s name or use of any aliases or fictitious names, including “doing business 
as” names.  All notices required by this Part shall be sent by overnight courier (not the U.S. 
Postal Service) to the Associate Director of Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, 
Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, D.C. 20580, with the 
subject line In the matter of GMR Transcription Services, Inc., FTC File No.1123120.  Provided, 
however, that in lieu of overnight courier, notices may be sent by first-class mail, but only if an 
electronic version of any such notice is contemporaneously sent to the Commission at 
Debrief@ftc.gov. 

VII. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED respondents shall notify the Commission at least thirty 

(30) days prior to any change in respondents that may affect compliance obligations arising 
under this order, including, but not limited to, a dissolution, assignment, sale, merger, or other 
action that would result in the emergence of a successor company; the creation or dissolution of a 
subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts or practices subject to this order; the 
proposed filing of a bankruptcy petition; or a change in either corporate name or address.  
Provided, however, that, with respect to any proposed change in the corporation about which 
respondents learn less than thirty (30) days prior to the date such action is to take place, 
respondents shall notify the Commission as soon as is practicable after obtaining such 
knowledge.  Unless otherwise directed by a representative of the Commission, all notices 
required by this Part shall be sent by overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal Service) to the 
Associate Director of Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 
600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, D.C. 20580, with the subject line In the matter of 
GMR Transcription Services, Inc., FTC File No.1123120.  Provided, however, that in lieu of 
overnight courier, notices may be sent by first-class mail, but only if an electronic version of any 
such notice is contemporaneously sent to the Commission at Debrief@ftc.gov.   

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VIII. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondents, within sixty (60) days after the date of 

service of this order, shall file with the Commission a true and accurate report, in writing, setting 
forth in detail the manner and form of its compliance with this order.  Within ten (10) days of 
receipt of written notice from a representative of the Commission, it shall submit additional true 
and accurate written reports. 

IX. 

This order will terminate on August 14, 2034, or twenty (20) years from the most recent 
date that the United States or the Federal Trade Commission files a complaint (with or without 
an accompanying consent decree) in federal court alleging any violation of the order, whichever 
comes later; provided, however, that the filing of such a complaint will not affect the duration of: 

A. 

B. 

C. 

Any Part in this order that terminates in less than twenty (20) years; 

This order’s application to any respondent that is not named as a defendant in 
such complaint; and 

This order if such complaint is filed after the order has terminated pursuant to this 
Part. 

Provided, further, that if such complaint is dismissed or a federal court rules that respondent did 
not violate any provision of the order, and the dismissal or ruling is either not appealed or upheld 
on appeal, then the order will terminate according to this Part as though the complaint had never 
been filed, except that the order will not terminate between the date such complaint is filed and 
the later of the deadline for appealing such dismissal or ruling and the date such dismissal or 
ruling is upheld on appeal. 

By the Commission, Commissioner McSweeny not participating. 

ISSUED:  August 14, 2014 
SEAL: 

Donald S. Clark 
Secretary 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
