UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION 

142 3156 

COMMISSIONERS: 

Edith Ramirez, Chairwoman 
Maureen K. Ohlhausen 
Terrell McSweeny 

_________________________________________________ 

In the Matter of  

ASUSTeK Computer Inc., 
a corporation. 

DECISION AND ORDER 

DOCKET NO. C-4587 

_________________________________________________ 

DECISION 

The Federal Trade Commission (“Commission”) initiated an investigation of certain acts and 

practices of the Respondent named above in the caption.  The Commission’s Bureau of 
Consumer Protection (“BCP”) prepared and furnished to Respondent a draft Complaint.  BCP 
proposed to present the draft Complaint to the Commission for its consideration.  If issued by the 
Commission, the draft Complaint would charge the Respondent with violation of the Federal 
Trade Commission Act. 

Respondent and BCP thereafter executed an Agreement Containing Consent Order (“Consent 

Agreement”).  The Consent Agreement includes:  1) statements by Respondent that it neither 
admits nor denies any of the allegations in the Complaint, except as specifically stated in this 
Decision and Order, and that only for purposes of this action, it admits the facts necessary to 
establish jurisdiction; and 2) waivers and other provisions as required by the Commission’s 
Rules. 

The Commission considered the matter and determined that it had reason to believe that 
Respondent has violated the Federal Trade Commission Act, and that a Complaint should issue 
stating its charges in that respect.  The Commission accepted the executed Consent Agreement 
and placed it on the public record for a period of 30 days, and duly considered the comments 
filed thereafter by interested persons pursuant to Commission Rule 2.34, 16 C.F.R. § 2.34.  Now, 
in further conformity with the procedure prescribed in Commission Rule 2.34, the Commission 
issues its Complaint, makes the following Findings, and issues the following Order: 

Page 1 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 

2. 

1. 

2. 

Respondent ASUSTeK Computer, Inc., is a Taiwanese corporation with its principal 
office or place of business at 15, Li-Te Rd., Peitou, Taipei 11259, Taiwan. 

The Commission has jurisdiction over the subject matter of this proceeding and over the 
Respondent, and the proceeding is in the public interest. 

ORDER 

DEFINITIONS 

For purposes of this Order, the following definitions shall apply: 

Unless otherwise specified, “respondent” shall mean ASUSTeK Computer, Inc., 
corporation, and its subsidiaries and divisions in the United States, and successors and 
assigns. 

“Clear(ly) and conspicuous(ly)” means that a required disclosure is difficult to miss (i.e., 
easily noticeable) and easily understandable by ordinary consumers, including in all of 
the following ways: 

A.  

B.  

C. 

D. 

E. 

F. 

In any communication that is solely visual or solely audible, the disclosure must 
be made through the same means through which the communication is presented.  
In any communication made through both visual and audible means, such as a 
television advertisement, the disclosure must be presented simultaneously in both 
the visual and audible portions of the communication, even if the representation 
requiring the disclosure is made in only one means. 

A visual disclosure, by its size, contrast, location, the length of time it appears, 
and other characteristics, must stand out from any accompanying text or other 
visual elements so that it is easily noticed, read, and understood. 

An audible disclosure, including by telephone or streaming video, must be 
delivered in a volume, speed, and cadence sufficient for ordinary consumers to 
easily hear and understand it.  

In any communication using an interactive electronic medium, such as the 
Internet or software, the disclosure must be unavoidable.   

The disclosure must use diction and syntax understandable to ordinary consumers. 

The disclosure must comply with these requirements in each medium through 
which it is received, including all electronic devices and face-to-face 
communications.  

G.  

The disclosure must not be contradicted or mitigated by, or inconsistent with,  
anything else in the communication. 

Page 2 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

“Commerce” shall mean commerce among the several States or with foreign nations, or 
in any Territory of the United States or in the District of Columbia, or between any such 
Territory and another, or between any such Territory and any State or foreign nation, or 
between the District of Columbia and any State or Territory or foreign nation, as defined 
in Section 4 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, 15 U.S.C. § 44. 

“Covered Device” shall mean (a) any router, or device for which the primary purpose is 
connecting other client devices to a network, developed by respondent, directly or 
indirectly, that is marketed to consumers in the United States and (b) the software used to 
access, operate, manage, or configure such router or other device subject to part (a) of 
this definition, including, but not limited to, the firmware, web or mobile applications, 
and any related online services, that are advertised, developed, branded, or provided by 
respondent, directly or indirectly, for use with, or as compatible with, the router or other 
device. 

“Covered Information” shall mean any individually-identifiable information from or 
about an individual consumer collected by respondent through a Covered Device or input 
into, stored on, captured with, accessed, or transmitted through a Covered Device, 
including but not limited to (a) a first and last name; (b) a home or other physical address; 
(c) an email address or other online contact information; (d) a telephone number; (e) a 
Social Security number; (f) financial information; (g) an authentication credential, such 
as a username or password; (h) photo, video, or audio files; (i) the contents of any 
communication, the names of any websites sought, or the information entered into any 
website.  

“Default Settings” shall mean any configuration option on a Covered Device that 
respondent preselects, presets, or prefills for the consumer. 

“Software Update” shall mean any update designed to address a Security Flaw. 

“Security Flaw” is a software vulnerability or design flaw in a Covered Device that 
creates a material risk of (a) unauthorized access to or modification of any Covered 
Device, (b) the unintentional exposure by a consumer of Covered Information, or (c) the 
unauthorized disclosure, misuse, loss, alteration, destruction, or other compromise of 
Covered Information. 

I. 

IT IS ORDERED that respondent and its officers, agents, representatives, and 

employees, directly or indirectly, in or affecting commerce, must not misrepresent in any 
manner, expressly or by implication: 

Page 3 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. 

The extent to which respondent or its products or services maintain and protect: 

1. 

2. 

The security of any Covered Device; 

The security, privacy, confidentiality, or integrity of any Covered 
Information; 

B. 

The extent to which a consumer can use a Covered Device to secure a network; 
and 

C. 

The extent to which a Covered Device is using up-to-date software. 

II. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent must, no later than the date of service of 
this order, establish and implement, and thereafter maintain, a comprehensive security program 
that is reasonably designed to (1) address security risks related to the development and 
management of new and existing Covered Devices, and (2) protect the privacy, security, 
confidentiality, and integrity of Covered Information.  Such program, the content and 
implementation of which must be fully documented in writing, must contain administrative, 
technical, and physical safeguards appropriate to respondent’s size and complexity, the nature 
and scope of respondent’s activities, and the sensitivity of the Covered Device’s function or the 
Covered Information, including:   

A. 

B. 

C. 

D. 

The designation of an employee or employees to coordinate and be accountable 
for the security program;   

The identification of material internal and external risks to the security of Covered 
Devices that could result in unauthorized access to or unauthorized modification 
of a Covered Device, and assessment of the sufficiency of any safeguards in place 
to control these risks; 

The identification of material internal and external risks to the privacy, security, 
confidentiality, and integrity of Covered Information that could result in the 
unintentional exposure of such information by consumers or the unauthorized 
disclosure, misuse, loss, alteration, destruction, or other compromise of such 
information, and assessment of the sufficiency of any safeguards in place to 
control these risks;  

At a minimum, the risk assessments required by Subparts B and C must include 
consideration of risks in each area of relevant operation, including, but not limited 
to: (1) employee training and management, including in secure engineering and 
defensive programming; (2) product design, development, and research; 
(3) secure software design, development, and testing, including for Default 
Settings; (4) review, assessment, and response to third-party security vulnerability 
reports, and (5) prevention, detection, and response to attacks, intrusions, or 
systems failures;   

Page 4 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
E. 

F. 

G. 

H. 

The design and implementation of reasonable safeguards to control the risks 
identified through risk assessment, including through reasonable and appropriate 
software security testing techniques, such as (1) vulnerability and penetration 
testing; (2) security architecture reviews; (3) code reviews; and (4) other 
reasonable and appropriate assessments, audits, reviews, or other tests to identify 
potential security failures and verify that access to Covered Devices and Covered 
Information is restricted consistent with a user’s security settings; 

Regular testing or monitoring of the effectiveness of the safeguards’ key controls, 
systems, and procedures; 

The development and use of reasonable steps to select and retain service providers 
capable of maintaining security practices consistent with this order, and requiring 
service providers by contract to implement and maintain appropriate safeguards 
consistent with this order; and 

The evaluation and adjustment of respondent’s security program in light of the 
results of the testing and monitoring required by Subpart F, any material changes 
to respondent’s operations or business arrangements, or any other circumstances 
that respondent knows or has reason to know may have a material impact on the 
effectiveness of the security program.  

III. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, in connection with its compliance with Part II of this 
order, respondent must obtain initial and biennial assessments and reports (“Assessments”) from 
a qualified, objective, independent third-party professional, who uses procedures and standards 
generally accepted in the profession.  Professionals qualified to prepare such Assessments must 
be:  a person qualified as a Certified Secure Software Lifecycle Professional (CSSLP) with 
experience programming secure Internet-accessible consumer-grade devices; or as a Certified 
Information System Security Professional (CISSP) with professional experience in the Software 
Development Security domain and in programming secure Internet-accessible consumer-grade 
devices; or a similarly qualified person or organization approved by the Associate Director for 
Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania 
Avenue, NW, Washington, D.C. 20580.  The reporting period for the Assessments must cover:  
(1) the first one hundred eighty (180) days after service of the order for the initial Assessment; 
and (2) each two (2) year period thereafter for twenty (20) years after service of the order for the 
biennial Assessments.  Each Assessment must: 

A. 

B. 

Set forth the specific controls and procedures that respondent has implemented 
and maintained during the reporting period; 

Explain how such safeguards are appropriate to respondent’s size and complexity, 
the nature and scope of respondent’s activities, and the sensitivity of the Covered 
Device’s function or the Covered Information; 

Page 5 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C. 

D. 

Explain how the safeguards that have been implemented meet or exceed the 
protections required by Part II of this order; and 

Certify that respondent’s security program is operating with sufficient 
effectiveness to provide reasonable assurance that the security of Covered 
Devices and the privacy, security, confidentiality, and integrity of Covered 
Information is protected and has so operated throughout the reporting period. 

Each Assessment must be prepared and completed within sixty (60) days after the end of the 
reporting period to which the Assessment applies.  Respondent must provide the initial 
Assessment to the Associate Director for Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal 
Trade Commission, Washington, D.C. 20580, within ten (10) days after the Assessment has been 
prepared.  All subsequent biennial Assessments must be retained by respondent until the order is 
terminated and provided to the Associate Director of Enforcement within ten (10) days of 
request.  Unless otherwise directed by a representative of the Commission, the initial 
Assessment, and any subsequent Assessments requested, must be emailed to Debrief@ftc.gov or 
sent by overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal Service) to:  Associate Director of Enforcement, 
Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, 
Washington, D.C. 20580.  The subject line must begin:  In re ASUSTek Computer Inc., FTC File 
No. 142 3156.     

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent must: 

IV. 

A. 

Notify consumers, Clearly and Conspicuously, when a Software Update is 
available, or when respondent is aware of reasonable steps that a consumer could 
take to mitigate a Security Flaw.  The notice must explain how to install the 
Software Update, or otherwise mitigate the Security Flaw, and the risks to the 
consumer’s Covered Device or Covered Information if the consumer chooses not 
to install the available Software Update or take the recommended steps to mitigate 
the Security Flaw.  Notice must be provided through at least each of the following 
means: 

1. 

2. 

3. 

Posting of a Clear and Conspicuous notice on at least the primary, 
consumer-facing website of respondent and, to the extent feasible, on the 
user interface of any Covered Device that is affected; 

Directly informing consumers who register, or who have registered, a 
Covered Device with respondent, by email, text message, push 
notification, or another similar method of providing notifications directly 
to consumers; and 

Informing consumers who contact respondent to complain or inquire about 
any aspect of the Covered Device they have purchased. 

Page 6 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B.  

Provide consumers with an opportunity to register an email address, phone 
number, device, or other information during the initial setup or configuration of a 
Covered Device, in order to receive the security notifications required by this 
Part.  The consumer’s registration of such information must not be dependent 
upon or defaulted to an agreement to receive non-security related notifications or 
any other communications, such as advertising.  Notwithstanding this 
requirement, respondent may provide an option for consumers to opt-out of 
receiving such security-related notifications.  

V. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent must maintain and upon request make 

available to the Federal Trade Commission for inspection and copying, a print or electronic copy 
of: 

A. 

For a period of three (3) years after the date of preparation of each Assessment 
required under Part III of this order, all materials relied upon to prepare the 
Assessment, whether prepared by or on behalf of the respondent, including but 
not limited to all plans, reports, studies, reviews, audits, audit trails, policies, 
training materials, and assessments, and any other materials relating to 
respondent’s compliance with Part III of this order, for the compliance period 
covered by such Assessment;   

B. 

Unless covered by V.A, for a period of five (5) years from the date of preparation 
or dissemination, whichever is later, all other documents relating to compliance 
with this order, including but not limited to: 

1.  

2.  

3.  

All advertisements, promotional materials, installation and user guides, 
and packaging containing any representations covered by this order, as 
well as all materials used or relied upon in making or disseminating the 
representation; 

All notifications required by Part IV of this order; and 

Any documents, whether prepared by or on behalf of respondent, that 
contradict, qualify, or call into question respondent’s compliance with this 
order. 

VI. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent must deliver a copy of this order to all 
current and future subsidiaries, current and future principals, officers, directors, and managers, 
and to all current and future employees, agents, and representatives having supervisory 
responsibilities relating to the subject matter of this order.  Respondent must deliver this order to 
such current subsidiaries and personnel within thirty (30) days after service of this order, and to 
such future subsidiaries and personnel within thirty (30) days after the person assumes such 

Page 7 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
position or responsibilities.  For any business entity resulting from any change in structure set 
forth in Part VII, delivery must be at least ten (10) days prior to the change in structure.   

VII. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent must notify the Commission at least 

thirty (30) days prior to any change in the corporation(s) that may affect compliance obligations 
arising under this order, including, but not limited to: a dissolution, assignment, sale, merger, or 
other action that would result in the emergence of a successor corporation; the creation or 
dissolution of a subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts or practices subject to this 
order; the proposed filing of a bankruptcy petition; or a change in the corporate name or address.  
Provided, however, that, with respect to any proposed change in the corporation(s) about which 
respondent learns fewer than thirty (30) days prior to the date such action is to take place, 
respondent must notify the Commission as soon as is practicable after obtaining such knowledge.  
Unless otherwise directed by a representative of the Commission, all notices required by this Part 
must be emailed to Debrief@ftc.gov or sent by overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal Service) to:  
Associate Director of Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 
600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, D.C. 20580.  The subject line must begin:  In re 
ASUSTek Computer Inc., FTC File No. 142 3156.   

VIII. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent, within sixty (60) days after the date of 

service of this order, must file with the Commission a true and accurate report, in writing, setting 
forth in detail the manner and form of its compliance with this order.  Within ten (10) days of 
receipt of written notice from a representative of the Commission, it must submit additional true 
and accurate written reports.  

IX. 

This order will terminate on July 18, 2036, or twenty (20) years from the most recent date 

that the United States or the Commission files a complaint (with or without an accompanying 
consent decree) in federal court alleging any violation of the order, whichever comes later; 
provided, however, that the filing of such a complaint will not affect the duration of: 

A. 

B. 

C. 

Any Part in this order that terminates in fewer than twenty (20) years; 

This order’s application to any respondent that is not named as a defendant in 
such complaint; and 

This order if such complaint is filed after the order has terminated pursuant to this 
Part. 

Page 8 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Provided, further, that if such complaint is dismissed or a federal court rules that respondent did 
not violate any provision of the order, and the dismissal or ruling is either not appealed or upheld 
on appeal, then the order as to such respondent will terminate according to this Part as though the 
complaint had never been filed, except that the order will not terminate between the date such 
complaint is filed and the later of the deadline for appealing such dismissal or ruling and the date 
such dismissal or ruling is upheld on appeal. 

By the Commission. 

SEAL 
ISSUED:  July 18, 2016 

Donald S. Clark 
Secretary 

Page 9 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
