152 3134 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION 

COMMISSIONERS: 

Maureen K. Ohlhausen, Acting Chairman 
Terrell McSweeny 

In the Matter of 

LENOVO (UNITED STATES) INC., 
a corporation. 

DOCKET NO. C-4636 

DECISION AND ORDER 

The Federal Trade Commission (“Commission”) initiated an investigation of certain acts and 

practices of the Respondent named in the caption.  The Commission’s Bureau of Consumer 
Protection (“BCP”) prepared and furnished to Respondent a draft Complaint.  BCP proposed to 
present the draft Complaint to the Commission for its consideration.  If issued by the 
Commission, the draft Complaint would charge the Respondent with violation of the Federal 
Trade Commission Act. 

Respondent and BCP thereafter executed an Agreement Containing Consent Order (“Consent 

Agreement”).  The Consent Agreement includes:  1) statement by Respondent that it neither 
admits nor denies any of the allegations in the Complaint, except as specifically stated in this 
Decision and Order, and that only for purposes of this action, it admits the facts necessary to 
establish jurisdiction; and 2) waivers and other provisions as required by the Commission’s 
Rules. 

The Commission considered the matter and determined that it had reason to believe that 
Respondent has violated the Federal Trade Commission Act, and that a Complaint should issue 
stating its charges in that respect.  The Commission accepted the executed Consent Agreement 
and placed it on the public record for a period of 30 days for the receipt and consideration of 
public comments.  The Commission duly considered any comments received from interested 
persons pursuant to Section 2.34 of its Rules, 16 C.F.R. § 2.34.  Now, in further conformity with 
the procedure prescribed in Rule 2.34, the Commission issues its Complaint, makes the 
following Findings, and issues the following Order: 

Page 1 of 11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Findings 

1.  The Respondent is a Delaware corporation, with its principal office or place of business 

located at 1009 Think Place, Morrisville, North Carolina 27560-9002. 

2.  The Commission has jurisdiction over the subject matter of this proceeding and over the 

Respondent, and the proceeding is in the public interest. 

ORDER 

Definitions 

For purposes of this Order, the following definitions apply: 

A.  “Respondent” means Lenovo (United States) Inc., and its successors and assigns. 

B.  “Affirmative express consent” means that: 

1.  Prior to the initial operation of any covered software, it shall be clearly and 
conspicuously disclosed, separate and apart from any “end user license 
agreement,” “privacy policy,” “terms of use” page or similar document, the 
following: 

a.  For any covered software that displays advertising, 

i.  the fact that the covered software will display advertisements, 

including any pop-up advertisements; and 

ii.  the frequency and circumstances under which such 
advertisements are displayed to the consumer; and 

b.  For any covered software that transmits, or causes to be transmitted, 
covered information to a person or entity other than the consumer, 

i.  the fact that the software will transmit, or cause to be 

transmitted, the covered information to a person or entity other 
than the consumer; 

ii.  the types of covered information that will be transmitted to a 

person or entity other than the consumer; 

Page 2 of 11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
iii.  the types of covered information that the receiving person or 
entity will share with third parties, which does not include an 
entity with a common corporate ownership and branding of 
Respondent or the software provider, a third party service 
provider, or any person or entity otherwise excluded by the 
Proviso in Part II of this Order; 

iv.  the identity or specific categories of such third parties; and 

v.  the purposes for sharing such covered information. 

2.  At the time this disclosure is made, a clear and conspicuous mechanism shall 
be provided for a consumer to indicate assent to the operation of the covered 
software by taking affirmative action authorizing its operation. 

C.  “Application software” means any computer program designed for and used by 
consumers (e.g., database programs, word processing programs, games, Internet 
browsers, or browser add-ons) that Respondent preinstalls or causes to be preinstalled 
onto a covered product.  Application software does not include device drivers; system 
software designed to configure, optimize or maintain a computer; operating systems; 
software bundled, integrated or included with operating systems; or software 
otherwise provided to Respondent for preinstallation on a covered product by an 
operating system provider. 

D.  “Clear(ly) and conspicuous(ly)” means that a required disclosure is difficult to miss 

(i.e., easily noticeable) and easily understandable by ordinary consumers, including in 
all of the following ways: 

1.  In any communication that is solely visual or solely audible, the disclosure 

must be made through the same means through which the communication is 
presented.  In any communication made through both visual and audible 
means, such as a television advertisement, the disclosure must be presented 
simultaneously in both the visual and audible portions of the communication 
even if the representation requiring the disclosure (“triggering representation”) 
is made through only one means. 

2.  A visual disclosure, by its size, contrast, location, the length of time it appears, 
and other characteristics, must stand out from any accompanying text or other 
visual elements so that it is easily noticed, read, and understood. 

3.  An audible disclosure, including by telephone or streaming video, must be 

delivered in a volume, speed, and cadence sufficient for ordinary consumers 
to easily hear and understand it. 

4.  In any communication using an interactive electronic medium, such as the 

Internet or software, the disclosure must be unavoidable. 

Page 3 of 11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  On a product label, the disclosure must be presented on the principal display 

panel. 

6.  The disclosure must use diction and syntax understandable to ordinary 
consumers and must appear in each language in which the triggering 
representation appears. 

7.  The disclosure must comply with these requirements in each medium through 

which it is received, including all electronic devices and face-to-face 
communications. 

8.  The disclosure must not be contradicted or mitigated by, or inconsistent with, 

anything else in the communication. 

9.  When the representation or sales practice targets a specific audience, such as 
children, the elderly, or the terminally ill, “ordinary consumers” includes 
reasonable members of that group. 

E.  “Covered information” means the following information from or about an individual 
consumer that is input into, stored on, accessed or transmitted through application 
software:  (a) a first and last name; (b) a physical address; (c) an email address or 
other online contact information, such as an instant messaging user identifier or a 
screen name; (d) login credentials and passwords; (e) a telephone number; (f) a Social 
Security number; (g) a driver’s license or other government-issued identification 
number; (h) a financial institution account number; (i) credit or debit card 
information; (j) any portion of the content of a consumer’s communications; (k) any 
portion of the content of a consumer’s files (e.g., documents, photos or videos); and 
(l) precise geolocation information sufficient to identify a street name and name of a 
city or town. 

F.  “Covered product” means any personal computer (i.e., desktop computers, laptops, 

laptops that convert into tablets or vice versa, and notebooks) that is manufactured by 
or on behalf of Respondent and is sold to U.S. consumers.  Covered products do not 
include servers and server peripherals, mobile handsets or smartphones, or tablets or 
similar devices that are sold without an integrated or detachable physical keyboard.  
Covered products also do not include the actual personal computers specifically sold 
to enterprise customers with over 1,000 employees. 

Page 4 of 11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
G.  “Covered software” means: 

1.  Application software that injects advertisements into a consumer’s Internet 

browsing session, including pop-up advertisements; or 

2.  Application software that transmits, or causes to be transmitted, covered 
information to a person or entity other than the consumer, except when 

a.  the covered information is used only in an aggregated and/or de-identified 
form that does not disclose, report, or otherwise share any individually 
identifiable information; or 

b.  the covered information is transmitted or used solely for one or more of 

the following purposes: 

i. 

being reasonably necessary for the software to perform a function or 
service that the consumer requests or otherwise interacts with; 

ii. 

authenticating the consumer; 

iii. 

configuring or setting up the software; or 

iv. 

assessing or analyzing the software’s performance (e.g., to find or fix 
problems in the software, assess how consumers are using the 
software, or to make improvements to the software).  

Covered software does not include Internet browsers, antivirus software, parental 
control software, or other computer security software. 

H.  “Feature” means one or more of the following attributes of covered software: (a) the 
covered software’s benefits, efficacy, or features; (b) the fact that it will display 
advertising, including pop-up advertisements; (c) the frequency and circumstances 
under which the covered software will display advertising; and (d) the fact of and 
extent to which the covered software will transmit, or cause to be transmitted, 
covered information to a person or entity other than the consumer. 

I.  “Software provider” means any person or entity other than Respondent that sells, 

leases, licenses, or otherwise provides application software. 

J.  “Third party service provider” means any person or entity that is contractually 
required by Respondent or a software provider to:  (a) use or receive covered 
information collected by or on behalf of Respondent or the software provider for and 
at the direction of Respondent or the software provider, and for no other individual or 
entity; (b) not disclose the covered information, or any individually identifiable 
information derived from it, to any individual or entity other than Respondent or the 
software provider; and (c) not use the covered information for any other purpose. 

Page 5 of 11 

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I.  Prohibited Misleading Representations 

IT IS ORDERED that Respondent, its officers, agents, employees, and attorneys, and all 
other persons in active concert or participation with any of them, who receive actual notice of 
this Order, whether acting directly or indirectly, in connection with the advertising, promotion, 
offering for sale, sale, or distribution of covered software shall not make a misrepresentation, in 
any manner, expressly or by implication, about any feature of the covered software. 

II. Affirmative Express Consent Provision 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, commencing no later than 120 days after the date of 
service of this Order, Respondent, its officers, agents, employees, and attorneys, and all other 
persons in active concert or participation with any of them, who receive actual notice of this 
Order, whether acting directly or indirectly, shall not preinstall or cause to be preinstalled any 
covered software unless Respondent or the software provider: 

A.  will obtain the consumer’s affirmative express consent; 

B.  provides instructions for how the consumer may revoke consent to the covered software’s 

operation, which can include uninstalling the covered software; and 

C.  provides a reasonable and effective means for consumers to opt out, disable or remove all 

of the covered software’s operations, which can include uninstalling the covered 
software. 

Provided, however, that affirmative express consent will not be required if sharing the covered 
information is reasonably necessary to comply with applicable law, regulation or legal process. 

III.  Mandated Software Security Program 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent must, no later than the date of service of 
this Order, establish and implement, and thereafter maintain a comprehensive software security 
program that is reasonably designed to (1) address software security risks related to the 
development and management of new and existing application software, and (2) protect the 
security, confidentiality, and integrity of covered information.  The content, implementation and 
maintenance of the software security program must be fully documented in writing.  The 
software security program must contain administrative, technical, and physical safeguards 
appropriate to Respondent’s size and complexity, the nature and scope of Respondent’s 
activities, the nature of the application software, the security policies and practices of the 
software provider, and the sensitivity of the covered information, including: 

Page 6 of 11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
A.  the designation of an employee or employees to coordinate and be responsible for the 

software security program; 

B.  the identification of internal and external risks to the security, confidentiality, or integrity 
of covered information that could result in the unauthorized disclosure, misuse, loss, 
alteration, destruction, or other compromise of such information, and assessment of the 
sufficiency of any safeguards in place to control these risks.  At a minimum, this risk 
assessment must include consideration of risks in each area of relevant operation, 
including:  (1) employee training and management; (2) application software design, 
including the processing, storage, transmission and disposal of covered information by 
the application software; and (3) the prevention, detection, and response to attacks, 
intrusions, or other vulnerabilities; 

C.  the design and implementation of reasonable safeguards to control these risks, and 
regular testing or monitoring of the effectiveness of the safeguards’ key controls, 
systems, and procedures; 

D.  the development and use of reasonable steps to select and retain software or service 
providers capable of maintaining security practices consistent with this Order, and 
requiring software and service providers, by contract, to implement and maintain 
appropriate safeguards; and 

E.  the evaluation and adjustment of the software security program in light of the results of 
the testing and monitoring required by sub-provision C, any changes to Respondent’s 
operations or business arrangements, or any other circumstances that Respondent knows 
or has reason to know may have an impact on the effectiveness of the software security 
program. 

IV. Software Security Assessments by a Third Party 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, in connection with compliance with the Provision of 

this Order titled Mandated Software Security Program, Respondent must obtain initial and 
biennial assessments (“Assessments”): 

A.  The Assessments must be obtained from a qualified, objective, independent third-party 

professional, who uses procedures and standards generally accepted in the profession.  A 
professional qualified to prepare such Assessments must be a person qualified as a 
Certified Secure Software Lifecycle Professional (CSSLP) with professional experience 
with secure Internet-accessible, consumer-grade devices; an individual qualified as a 
Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) or as a Certified 
Information Systems Auditor (CISA) with professional experience with secure Internet-
accessible consumer-grade devices; or a qualified individual or entity approved by the 
Associate Director for Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade 
Commission. 

Page 7 of 11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B.  The reporting period for the Assessments must cover:  (1) the first 180 days after the 
issuance date of the Order for the initial Assessment, and (2) each 2-year period 
thereafter for 20 years after issuance of the Order for the biennial Assessments. 

C.  Each Assessment must: 

1.  set forth the specific administrative, technical, and physical safeguards that 
Respondent has implemented and maintained during the reporting period; 

2.  explain how such safeguards are appropriate to Respondent’s size and complexity, the 
nature and scope of Respondent’s activities, the nature of the application software, the 
security policies and practices of the application software provider, and the sensitivity 
of the covered information; 

3.  explain how the safeguards that have been implemented meet or exceed the 

protections required by the Provision of this Order titled Mandated Software Security 
Program; and 

4.  certify that the Mandated Software Security Program is operating with sufficient 
effectiveness to provide reasonable assurance that the security of  the application 
software preinstalled on covered products and the security, confidentiality, and 
integrity of covered information is protected, and that the Mandated Software 
Security Program has so operated throughout the reporting period. 

D.  Each Assessment must be completed within 60 days after the end of the reporting period 
to which the Assessment applies.  Respondent must submit the initial Assessment to the 
Commission within 10 days after the Assessment has been completed.  Respondent must 
retain all subsequent biennial Assessments, at least until the Order terminates. 
Respondent must submit any biennial Assessments to the Commission within 10 days of 
a request from a representative of the Commission. 

V. Acknowledgments of the Order 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent obtain acknowledgments of receipt of this 

Order: 

A.  Respondent, within 10 days after the effective date of this Order, must submit to the 

Commission an acknowledgment of receipt of this Order sworn under penalty of perjury. 

B.  For 5 years after the issuance date of this Order, Respondent must deliver a copy of this 

Order to:  (1) all principals, officers, and directors; (2) all employees, agents, and 
representatives with managerial responsibilities related to the subject matter of the Order; 
and (3) any business entity resulting from any change in structure as set forth in the 
Provision titled Compliance Report and Notices.  Delivery must occur within 10 days 
after the effective date of this Order for current personnel.  For all others, delivery must 
occur before they assume their responsibilities. 

Page 8 of 11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
VI. Compliance Report and Notices 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent makes timely submissions to the 

Commission: 

A.  One year after the issuance date of this Order, Respondent must submit a compliance 
report, sworn under penalty of perjury, in which Respondent must: (a) identify the 
primary physical, postal, and email address and telephone number, as designated points 
of contact, which representatives of the Commission, may use to communicate with 
Respondent; (b) identify all of Respondent’s business entities by all of their names; (c) 
describe the activities of each business, including the goods and services offered; (d) 
describe in detail whether and how Respondent is in compliance with each Provision of 
this Order, including a discussion of all of the costs incurred and changes made by the 
Respondent to comply with the Order; and (e) provide a copy of each Acknowledgment 
of the Order obtained pursuant to this Order, unless previously submitted to the 
Commission. 

B.  Respondent must submit a compliance notice, sworn under penalty of perjury, within 14 
days of any change in the following:  (a) any designated point of contact; or (b) the 
structure of Respondent or any entity that Respondent has any ownership interest in or 
controls directly or indirectly that may affect compliance obligations arising under this 
Order, including:  creation, merger, sale, or dissolution of the entity or any subsidiary, 
parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts or practices subject to this Order. 

C.  Respondent must submit notice of the filing of any bankruptcy petition, insolvency 

proceeding, or similar proceeding by or against such Respondent within 14 days of its 
filing. 

D.  Any submission to the Commission required by this Order to be sworn under penalty of 

perjury must be true and accurate and comply with 28 U.S.C. § 1746, such as by 
concluding:  “I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the United States of 
America that the foregoing is true and correct.  Executed on:  _____,” and supplying the 
date, signatory’s full name, title (if applicable), and signature. 

E.  Unless otherwise directed by a Commission representative in writing, all submissions to 
the Commission pursuant to this Order must be emailed to DEbrief@ftc.gov or sent by 
overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal Service) to:  Associate Director for Enforcement, 
Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue 
NW, Washington, DC  20580.  The subject line must begin:  In re Lenovo (United States) 
Inc. 

Page 9 of 11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
VII. Recordkeeping 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent must create certain records for 20 years after 
the issuance date of the Order, and retain each such record for 5 years, unless otherwise specified 
below. Specifically, Respondent must create and retain the following records: 

A.  accounting records showing the revenues from all covered products sold, the costs 

incurred in generating those revenues, and resulting net profit or loss; 

B.  personnel records showing, for each person who must receive a copy of this Order 

pursuant to Part V.B., that person’s: name; addresses; telephone numbers; job title or 
position; dates of service; and (if applicable) the reason for termination; 

C.  copies or records of all U.S. consumer complaints relating to covered software or the 

security of application software, whether received directly or indirectly, such as through a 
third party, and any response; 

D.  a copy of each representation subject to this Order; 

E.  for 5 years after the date of preparation of each Assessment required by this Order, all 
materials relied upon to prepare the Assessment, whether prepared by or on behalf of 
Respondent, including all plans, reports, studies, reviews, audits, audit trails, policies, 
training materials, and assessments, and any other materials concerning Respondent’s 
compliance with related Provisions of this Order, for the compliance period covered by 
such Assessment; and 

F.  all records necessary to demonstrate full compliance with each provision of this Order, 

including all submissions to the Commission. 

VIII. Compliance Monitoring 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, for the purpose of monitoring Respondent’s 

compliance with this Order: 

A.  Within 10 days of receipt of a written request from a representative of the Commission, 
Respondent must submit additional compliance reports or other requested information, 
which must be sworn under penalty of perjury, and produce records for inspection and 
copying. 

B.  For matters concerning this Order, representatives of the Commission are authorized to 
communicate directly with Respondent.  Respondent must permit representatives of the 
Commission to interview anyone affiliated with any Respondent who has agreed to such 
an interview.  The interviewee may have counsel present. 

Page 10 of 11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C.  The Commission may use all other lawful means, including posing through its 

representatives as consumers, suppliers, or other individuals or entities, to Respondent or 
any individual or entity affiliated with Respondent, without the necessity of identification 
or prior notice.  Nothing in this Order limits the Commission’s lawful use of compulsory 
process, pursuant to Sections 9 and 20 of the FTC Act, 15 U.S.C. §§ 49, 57b-1. 

IX. Order Effective Dates 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that this Order is final and effective upon the date of its 
publication on the Commission’s website (ftc.gov) as a final order.  This Order will terminate on 
December 20, 2037, or 20 years from the most recent date that the United States or the 
Commission files a complaint (with or without an accompanying settlement) in federal court 
alleging any violation of this Order, whichever comes later; provided, however, that the filing of 
such a complaint will not affect the duration of: 

A.  any Provision in this Order that terminates in less than 20 years; 

B.  this Order’s application to any Respondent that is not named as a defendant in such 

complaint; and 

C.  this Order if such complaint is filed after the Order has terminated pursuant to this 

Provision. 

Provided, further, that if such complaint is dismissed or a federal court rules that the Respondent 
did not violate any provision of the Order, and the dismissal or ruling is either not appealed or 
upheld on appeal, then the Order will terminate according to this Provision as though the 
complaint had never been filed, except that the Order will not terminate between the date such 
complaint is filed and the later of the deadline for appealing such dismissal or ruling and the date 
such dismissal or ruling is upheld on appeal. 

By the Commission. 

SEAL: 
ISSUED:  December 20, 2017 

Donald S. Clark 
Secretary 

Page 11 of 11 

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
