1723003 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION 

COMMISSIONERS: 

Joseph J. Simons, Chairman 
Noah Joshua Phillips  
Rohit Chopra 
Rebecca Kelly Slaughter 
Christine S. Wilson 

______________________________________ 
     ) 
      )  

In the Matter of                                            

James V. Grago, Jr., individually and  
d/b/a ClixSense.com     

)        
) 
) 
                                         ) 
______________________________________ ) 

DECISION 

DECISION AND ORDER 

DOCKET NO. C-4678 

The Federal Trade Commission (“Commission”) initiated an investigation of certain acts 
and practices of the Respondent named in the caption.  The Commission’s Bureau of Consumer 
Protection (“BCP”) prepared and furnished to Respondent a draft Complaint.  BCP proposed to 
present the draft Complaint to the Commission for its consideration.  If issued by the 
Commission, the draft Complaint would charge the Respondent with violations of the Federal 
Trade Commission Act.   

Respondent and BCP thereafter executed an Agreement Containing Consent Order 
(“Consent Agreement”).  The Consent Agreement includes:  (1) statements by Respondent that it 
neither admits nor denies any of the allegations in the Complaint, except as specifically stated in 
this Decision and Order, and that only for purposes of this action, it admits the facts necessary to 
establish jurisdiction; and (2) waivers and other provisions as required by the Commission’s 
Rules.  

The Commission considered the matter and determined that it had reason to believe that 
Respondent has violated the Federal Trade Commission Act, and that a Complaint should issue 
stating its charges in that respect.  The Commission accepted the executed Consent Agreement 
and placed it on the public record for a period of 30 days for the receipt and consideration of 
public comments.  The Commission duly considered any comments received from interested 
persons pursuant to Section 2.34 of its Rules, 16 C.F.R. § 2.34.  Now, in further conformity with 
the procedure prescribed in Rule 2.34, the Commission issues its Complaint, makes the 
following Findings, and issues the following Order: 

Page 1 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Findings 

1.  Respondent is James V. Grago, Jr., individually and doing business as ClixSense.com, 

which is a sole proprietorship with its principal office or place of business in Hampstead, 
North Carolina.   

2.  The Commission has jurisdiction over the subject matter of this proceeding and over 

Respondent, and the proceeding is in the public interest. 

ORDER 

Definitions 

For purposes of this Order, the following definitions apply: 

1.  “Covered Incident” means any instance in which any United States federal, state, or local 

law or regulation requires Respondent to notify any U.S. federal, state, or local 
government entity that information collected or received, directly or indirectly, by 
Respondent from or about an individual consumer was, or is reasonably believed to have 
been, accessed or acquired without authorization.  

2.  “Personal Information” means individually identifiable information from or about an 

individual consumer, including:  (a) a first and last name; (b) a home or other physical 
address; (c) an email address or other online contact information, such as an instant 
messaging user identifier or a screen name; (d) a telephone number; (e) a Social Security 
number; (f) a driver’s license or other government-issued identification number; (g) a 
financial institution account number; (h) a credit or debit card number; (i) a photograph; 
(j) an authentication credential such as a login ID or password; and (k) an answer to a 
security question. 

3.  “Respondent” means James V. Grago, Jr., individually and doing business as 

ClixSense.com, a sole proprietorship, and its successors and assigns. 

Provisions 

I.  Prohibition Against Misrepresentations 
 About Privacy or Security of Personal Information 

IT IS ORDERED that Respondent, Respondent’s officers, agents, employees, and 

attorneys, and all other persons in active concert or participation with any of them, who receive 
actual notice of this Order, whether acting directly or indirectly, in connection with any product 
or service must not misrepresent in any manner, expressly or by implication, the extent to which 
Respondent maintains and protects the privacy, security, confidentiality, or integrity of Personal 

Page 2 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Information, including the extent to which Respondent utilizes (1) encryption techniques; and (2) 
security techniques. 

II.  Mandated Information Security Program 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent, for any business that Respondent 

controls directly or indirectly, shall not transfer, sell, share, collect, maintain, or store Personal 
Information unless it establishes and implements, and thereafter maintains, a comprehensive 
information security program (“Information Security Program”) that is designed to protect the 
security, confidentiality, and integrity of such Personal Information.  To satisfy this requirement, 
Respondent must, at a minimum: 

A.  Document in writing the content, implementation, and maintenance of the Information 

Security Program; 

B.  Designate a qualified employee or employees to coordinate and be responsible for the 

Information Security Program; 

C.  Assess and document, at least once every twelve months and promptly following a 

Covered Incident, internal and external risks to the security, confidentiality, or integrity 
of Personal Information that could result in the unauthorized disclosure, misuse, loss, 
alteration, destruction, or other compromise of such information; 

D.  Design, implement, and document safeguards that address the internal and external risks 
Respondent identifies to the security, confidentiality, or integrity of Personal Information 
identified in response to sub-Provision II.C.  Each safeguard shall take into account the 
sensitivity of Personal Information at issue;   

E.  Assess, at least once every twelve months and promptly following a Covered Incident, 

the sufficiency of any safeguards in place to address the risks to the security, 
confidentiality, or integrity of Personal Information.  Each such assessment must evaluate 
safeguards in each area of relevant operation, including:  (1) employee training and 
management; (2) information systems, such as network and software design, information 
processing, storage, transmission, and disposal; and (3) prevention, detection, and 
response to attacks, intrusions, or other systems failures; 

F.  Test and monitor the effectiveness of the safeguards at least once every twelve months 
and promptly following a Covered Incident, and modify the Information Security 
Program based on the results;   

G.  Select and retain service providers capable of safeguarding Personal Information they 

receive from Respondent, and contractually require service providers to implement and 
maintain safeguards for Personal Information; and  

Page 3 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
H.  Evaluate and adjust the Information Security Program in light of any changes to 

Respondent’s operations or business arrangements, a Covered Incident, or any other 
circumstances that Respondent knows or has reason to know may have an impact on the 
effectiveness of the Information Security Program.  At a minimum, Respondent must 
evaluate the Information Security Program at least once every twelve months. 

III.  Data Security Assessments by a Third Party 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, in connection with compliance with Provision II of 

this Order titled Mandated Information Security Program, for any business that Respondent 
controls, directly or indirectly, that collects Personal Information online, Respondent must obtain 
initial and biennial assessments (“Assessments”): 

A.  The Assessments must be obtained from a qualified, objective, independent third-party 
professional (“Assessor”), who uses procedures and standards generally accepted in the 
profession.  The Assessor preparing such Assessments must be:  an individual qualified 
as a Certified Information System Security Professional (CISSP) or as a Certified 
Information Systems Auditor (CISA); an individual holding Global Information 
Assurance Certification (GIAC) from the SANS Institute; or a qualified individual or 
entity approved by the Associate Director for Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer 
Protection, Federal Trade Commission. 

B.  The reporting period for the Assessments must cover:  (1) the first 180 days after the 
issuance date of the Order for the initial Assessment; and (2) each 2-year period 
thereafter for twenty (20) years after issuance of the Order for the biennial Assessments. 

C.  Each Assessment must:  (1) determine whether Respondent has implemented and 

maintained Provision II of this Order titled Mandated Information Security Program; (2) 
assess the effectiveness of Respondent’s implementation and maintenance of sub-
Provisions II.A-H; and (3) identify any gaps or weaknesses in the Information Security 
Program. 

D.  Each Assessment must be completed within sixty (60) days after the end of the reporting 
period to which the Assessment applies.  Unless otherwise directed by a Commission 
representative in writing, Respondent must submit the initial Assessment to the 
Commission within ten (10) days after the Assessment has been completed via email to 
DEbrief@ftc.gov or by overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal Service) to Associate 
Director for Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 
600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC  20580.  The subject line must begin, 
“In re James V. Grago, Jr., d/b/a ClixSense.com, FTC File No.1723003.”  All subsequent 
biennial Assessments shall be retained by Respondent until the order is terminated and 
provided to the Associate Director for Enforcement within ten (10) days of request. 

Page 4 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IV. Prohibition Against Misrepresentations to the Assessor 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent, whether acting directly or indirectly, in 

connection with any Assessment required by Provision III of this Order titled Data Security 
Assessments by a Third Party, must not misrepresent in any manner, expressly or by implication, 
any fact material to the Assessor’s:  (1) determination of whether Respondent has implemented 
and maintained Provision II of this Order titled Mandated Information Security Program; (2) 
assessment of the effectiveness of the implementation and maintenance of sub-Provisions II.A-
H; or (3) identification of any gaps or weaknesses in the Information Security Program. 

V. Annual Certification 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, in connection with compliance with Provision II of 

this Order titled Mandated Information Security Program, Respondent shall: 

A.  One year after the issuance date of this Order, and each year thereafter, provide the 

Commission with a certification from a senior corporate manager, or, if no such senior 
corporate manager exists, a senior officer of Respondent responsible for Respondent’s 
Information Security Program that:  (1) Respondent has established, implemented, and 
maintained the requirements of this Order; (2) Respondent is not aware of any material 
noncompliance that has not been (a) corrected or (b) disclosed to the Commission; and 
(3) includes a brief description of any Covered Incident.  The certification must be based 
on the personal knowledge of the senior corporate manager, senior officer, or subject 
matter experts upon whom the senior corporate manager or senior officer reasonably 
relies in making the certification. 

B.  Unless otherwise directed by a Commission representative in writing, submit all annual 
certifications to the Commission pursuant to this Order via email to DEbrief@ftc.gov or 
by overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal Service) to Associate Director for Enforcement, 
Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue 
NW, Washington, DC 20580.  The subject line must begin, “In re James V. Grago, Jr., 
d/b/a ClixSense.com, FTC File No.1723003.” 

VI. Acknowledgments of the Order 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent obtain acknowledgments of receipt of 

this Order: 

A.  Respondent, within ten (10) days after the effective date of this Order, must submit to the 

Commission an acknowledgment of receipt of this Order. 

B.  For twenty (20) years after the issuance date of this Order, Respondent must deliver a 
copy of this Order to:  (1) all principals, officers, directors, and LLC managers and 
members; (2) all employees, agents, and representatives with responsibilities related to 

Page 5 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the subject matter of the Order; and (3) any business entity resulting from any change in 
structure as set forth in Provision VII of this Order titled Compliance Reports and 
Notices.  Delivery must occur within ten (10) days after the effective date of this Order 
for current personnel.  For all others, delivery must occur before they assume their 
responsibilities. 

C.  From each individual or entity to which Respondent delivered a copy of this Order, 

Respondent must obtain, within thirty (30) days, a signed and dated acknowledgment of 
receipt of this Order. 

VII. Compliance Reports and Notices 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent make timely submissions to the 

Commission: 

A.  One year after the issuance date of this Order, Respondent must submit a compliance 

report, sworn under penalty of perjury, in which: 

1.  Respondent must:  (a) identify the primary physical, postal, and email address and 
telephone number, as designated points of contact, which representatives of the 
Commission, may use to communicate with Respondent; (b) identify all of 
Respondent’s businesses by all of their names, telephone numbers, and physical, 
postal, email, and Internet addresses; (c) describe the activities of each business, 
including the goods and services offered, the means of advertising, marketing, and 
sales; (d) describe in detail whether and how Respondent is in compliance with each 
Provision of this Order, including a discussion of all of the changes Respondent made 
to comply with the Order; and (e) provide a copy of each Acknowledgment of the 
Order obtained pursuant to this Order, unless previously submitted to the 
Commission. 

2.  Additionally, Respondent must:  (a) identify all his telephone numbers and all his 

physical, postal, email and Internet addresses, including all residences; (b) identify all 
his business activities, including any business for which Respondent performs 
services whether as an employee or otherwise and any entity in which Respondent, 
individually, has any ownership interest; and (c) describe in detail Respondent’s 
involvement in each such business activity, including title, role, responsibilities, 
participation, authority, control, and any ownership. 

B.  Respondent must submit a compliance notice, sworn under penalty of perjury, within 

fourteen (14) days of any change in the following:  

1.  Respondent must submit notice of any change in:  (a) any designated point of contact; 
or (b) the structure of any entity that Respondent has any ownership interest in or 

Page 6 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
controls directly or indirectly that may affect compliance obligations arising under 
this Order, including:  creation, merger, sale, or dissolution of the entity or any 
subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts or practices subject to this 
Order. 

2.  Additionally, Respondent must submit notice of any change in:  (a) name, including 
alias or fictitious name, or residence address; or (b) title or role in any business 
activity, including (i) any business for which Respondent performs services whether 
as an employee or otherwise and (ii) any entity in which Respondent has any 
ownership interest and over which Respondent has direct or indirect control.  For 
each such business activity, also identify its name, physical address, and any Internet 
address. 

C.  Respondent must submit notice of the filing of any bankruptcy petition, insolvency 

proceeding, or similar proceeding by or against Respondent within fourteen (14) days of 
its filing. 

D.  Any submission to the Commission required by this Order to be sworn under penalty of 

perjury must be true and accurate and comply with 28 U.S.C. § 1746, such as by 
concluding:  “I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the United States of 
America that the foregoing is true and correct.  Executed on:  _____” and supplying the 
date, signatory’s full name, title (if applicable), and signature. 

E.   Unless otherwise directed by a Commission representative in writing, all submissions to 
the Commission pursuant to this Order must be emailed to DEbrief@ftc.gov or sent by 
overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal Service) to Associate Director for Enforcement, 
Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue 
NW, Washington, DC  20580.  The subject line must begin, “In re James V. Grago, Jr., 
d/b/a ClixSense.com, FTC File No.1723003.” 

VIII. Recordkeeping 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent must create certain records for twenty 

(20) years after the issuance date of the Order, and retain each such record for five (5) years.  
Specifically, Respondent must create and retain the following records: 

A.  Accounting records showing the revenues from all goods or services sold;  

B.  Personnel records showing, for each person providing services, whether as an employee 
or otherwise, that person’s:  name; addresses; telephone numbers; job title or position; 
dates of service; and (if applicable) the reason for termination;  

C.  Copies or records of all consumer complaints concerning the subject matter of the Order, 
whether received directly or indirectly, such as through a third party, and any response; 

Page 7 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
D.  A copy of each widely disseminated representation by Respondent that describes the 

extent to which Respondent maintains or protects the privacy, confidentiality, security, or 
integrity of any Personal Information, including any representation concerning a change 
in any website or other service controlled by Respondent that relates to the privacy, 
confidentiality, security, or integrity of Personal Information, including the extent to 
which Respondent utilizes (1) encryption techniques; and (2) security techniques; and  

E.  All records necessary to demonstrate full compliance with each Provision of this Order, 

including all submissions to the Commission.  

IX. Compliance Monitoring 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, for the purpose of monitoring Respondent’s 

compliance with this Order: 

A.  Within ten (10) days of receipt of a written request from a representative of the 

Commission, Respondent must:  submit additional compliance reports or other requested 
information, which must be sworn under penalty of perjury, and produce records for 
inspection and copying. 

B.  For matters concerning this Order, representatives of the Commission are authorized to 
communicate directly with Respondent.  Respondent must permit representatives of the 
Commission to interview anyone affiliated with Respondent who has agreed to such an 
interview.  The interviewee may have counsel present. 

C.  The Commission may use all other lawful means, including posing through its 

representatives as consumers, suppliers, or other individuals or entities, to Respondent or 
any individual or entity affiliated with Respondent, without the necessity of identification 
or prior notice.  Nothing in this Order limits the Commission’s lawful use of compulsory 
process, pursuant to Sections 9 and 20 of the FTC Act, 15 U.S.C. §§ 49, 57b-1. 

X. Order Effective Dates 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that this Order is final and effective upon the date of its 

publication on the Commission’s website (ftc.gov) as a final order.  This Order will terminate 
twenty (20) years from the date of its issuance (which date may be stated at the end of this Order, 
near the Commission’s seal), or twenty (20) years from the most recent date that the United 
States or the Commission files a complaint (with or without an accompanying settlement) in 
federal court alleging any violation of this Order, whichever comes later; provided, however, that 
the filing of such a complaint will not affect the duration of: 

A.  Any Provision in this Order that terminates in less than twenty (20) years; 

Page 8 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B.  This Order’s application to any Respondent that is not named as a defendant in such 

complaint; and 

C.  This Order if such complaint is filed after the Order has terminated pursuant to this 

Provision.   

Provided, further, that if such complaint is dismissed or a federal court rules that the Respondent 
did not violate any Provision of the Order, and the dismissal or ruling is either not appealed or 
upheld on appeal, then the Order will terminate according to this Provision as though the 
complaint had never been filed, except that the Order will not terminate between the date such 
complaint is filed and the later of the deadline for appealing such dismissal or ruling and the date 
such dismissal or ruling is upheld on appeal. 

By the Commission. 

SEAL: 
ISSUED: June 19, 2019 

April J. Tabor 
Acting Secretary 

Page 9 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
