UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION 

162 3130 

COMMISSIONERS: 

Joseph J. Simons, Chairman 
Noah Joshua Phillips 
Rohit Chopra 
Rebecca Kelly Slaughter 
Christine S. Wilson 

In the Matter of  

INFOTRAX  SYSTEMS, L.C., a limited  
liability company, and  

DECISION AND ORDER  
DOCKET NO. C-4696  

MARK RAWLINS   

DECISION 

The Federal Trade Commission (“Commission”) initiated an investigation of certain acts 
and practices of the Respondents named in the caption.  The Commission’s Bureau of Consumer 
Protection (“BCP”) prepared and furnished to Respondents a draft Complaint.  BCP proposed to 
present the draft Complaint to the Commission for its consideration.  If issued by the 
Commission, the draft Complaint would charge the Respondents with violations of the Federal 
Trade Commission Act, 15 U.S.C. § 45(a). 

Respondents and BCP thereafter executed an Agreement Containing Consent Order 

(“Consent Agreement”).  The Consent Agreement includes:  (1) statements by Respondents that 
they neither admit nor deny any of the allegations in the Complaint, except as specifically stated 
in this Decision and Order, and that only for purposes of this action, they admit the facts 
necessary to establish jurisdiction; and (2) waivers and other provisions as required by the 
Commission’s Rules. 

The Commission considered the matter and determined that it had reason to believe that 

Respondents have violated the Federal Trade Commission Act, and that a Complaint should 
issue stating its charges in that respect.  The Commission accepted the executed Consent 
Agreement and placed it on the public record for a period of thirty (30) days for the receipt and 
consideration of public comments. Now, in further conformity with the procedure prescribed in 
Rule 2.34, the Commission issues its Complaint, makes the following Findings, and issues the 
following Order: 

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
                                                            
 
 
 
                                                            
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  The Respondents are: 

Findings 

a.  Respondent InfoTrax Systems, L.C. (“InfoTrax”), a limited liability company with its 
principal office or place of business at 1875 South State Street, Suite 3000, Orem, 
Utah 84097. 

b.   Respondent Mark Rawlins, founder and Chief Executive Officer of Corporate 

Respondent InfoTrax Systems, L.C. during the time period relevant to the Complaint. 
Individually or in concert with others, he formulated, directed, or controlled the 
policies, acts, or practices of InfoTrax Systems, L.C.  His principal office or place of 
business is in Orem, Utah. 

2.  The Commission has jurisdiction over the subject matter of this proceeding and over the 

Respondents, and the proceeding is in the public interest. 

ORDER 

Definitions 

For purposes of this Order, the following definitions apply: 

A.  “Covered Business” means: (1) Corporate Respondent; (2) any business that Corporate 

Respondent controls, directly or indirectly; and (3) any business that Individual 
Respondent controls, directly or indirectly, except for the businesses that own, lease, 
and/or operate the Aravada Springs Campground (“Campground”), located in 
Bunkerville, Nevada, solely to the extent that the businesses are engaged in the operation 
of the Campground. 

B.  “Covered Incident” means any instance in which any United States federal, state, or local 
law or regulation requires a Covered Business or Individual Respondent, or any client of 
a Covered Business, to notify any U.S. federal, state, or local government entity that 
information collected or received, directly or indirectly, by a Covered Business from or 
about an individual consumer was, or is reasonably believed to have been, accessed or 
acquired without authorization. 

C.  “Personal Information” means individually identifiable information from or about an 

individual consumer, including: (1) a first and last name; (2) a physical address; (3) an 
email address or other online contact information, such as an instant messaging user 
identifier or a screen name; (4) a telephone number; (5) date of birth; (6) a Social 
Security number; (7) driver’s license or other government issued identification number; 
(8) financial institution account number; (9) credit or debit card information; (10) a 
persistent identifier, such as a customer number held in a “cookie,” a static Internet 
Protocol (“IP”) address, a mobile device ID, or processor serial number; and (11) 
authentication credentials such as a user ID and password. 

2  

 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
D.  “Respondents” means Corporate Respondent and Individual Respondent, individually, 

collectively, or in any combination. 

1.  “Corporate Respondent” means InfoTrax, and its successors and assigns. 

2.  “Individual Respondent” means Mark Rawlins.  

Provisions 

I. 

Mandated Information Security Program 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that each Covered Business shall not transfer, sell, share, 

collect, maintain, or store Personal Information unless it establishes and implements, and 
thereafter maintains, a comprehensive information security program (“Information Security 
Program”) that protects the security, confidentiality, and integrity of such Personal Information.  
To satisfy this requirement, each Covered Business must, at a minimum: 

A.  Document in writing the content, implementation, and maintenance of the Information 

Security Program; 

B.  Provide the written program and any evaluations thereof or updates thereto to its board of 
directors or governing body or, if no such board or equivalent governing body exists, to a 
senior officer responsible for its Information Security Program at least once every twelve 
(12) months and promptly after a Covered Incident; 

C.  Designate a qualified employee or employees to coordinate and be responsible for the 

Information Security Program; 

D.  Assess and document, at least once every twelve (12) months and promptly following a 
Covered Incident, internal and external risks to the security, confidentiality, or integrity 
of Personal Information that could result in the unauthorized disclosure, misuse, loss, 
theft, alteration, destruction, or other compromise of such information; 

E.  Design, implement, maintain, and document safeguards that control the internal and 
external risks to the security, confidentiality, or integrity of Personal Information 
identified in response to sub-Provision I.D.  Each safeguard shall be based on the volume 
and sensitivity of the Personal Information that is at risk, and the likelihood that the risk 
could be realized and result in the unauthorized access, collection, use, alteration, 
destruction, or disclosure of the Personal Information.  Corporate Respondent’s 
safeguards shall also include: 

1.  Policies, procedures, and technical measures to systematically inventory Personal 
Information stored on Corporate Respondent’s network and delete Personal 
Information that is no longer necessary; 

3  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Measures to assess the cybersecurity risk posed by Corporate Respondent’s code to 
Personal Information stored on Corporate Respondent’s network, including, at least 
once every twelve (12) months and promptly after a Covered Incident: (a) software 
code review; and (b) penetration testing of Corporate Respondent’s software; 

3.  Technical measures to detect unknown file uploads, such as input validation; 

4.  Technical measures to limit the locations to which third parties can upload files on 

Corporate Respondent’s network; 

5.  Segmentation of Corporate Respondent’s network to ensure that one client’s 

distributors cannot access another client’s data on Corporate Respondent’s network;  

6.  Technical measures to detect anomalous activity and/or cybersecurity events on 

Corporate Respondent’s network, including (a) an intrusion prevention or detection 
system to alert Corporate Respondent of potentially unauthorized queries and/or 
access to its network; (b) file integrity monitoring tools to determine whether files on 
Corporate Respondent’s network have been altered; and (c) data loss prevention tools 
to regularly monitor for unauthorized attempts to exfiltrate Personal Information 
outside Corporate Respondent’s network boundaries; and 

7.  Encryption of Social Security numbers, payment card information (including full 

credit card and debit card numbers, Card Verification Values, and expiration dates), 
bank account information (including account and routing numbers), and 
authentication credentials such as user IDs and passwords on Corporate Respondent’s 
network. 

F.  Assess, at least once every twelve (12) months and promptly following a Covered 

Incident, the sufficiency of any safeguards in place to address the risks to the security, 
confidentiality, or integrity of Personal Information, and modify the Information Security 
Program based on the results; 

G.  Test and monitor the effectiveness of the safeguards at least once every twelve (12) 

months and promptly following a Covered Incident, and modify the Information Security 
Program based on the results.  Such testing shall include vulnerability testing of each of 
Respondents’ network(s) once every four months and promptly after a Covered Incident, 
and penetration testing of each of the Covered Business’s network(s) at least once every 
twelve (12) months and promptly after a Covered Incident; 

H.  Select and retain service providers capable of safeguarding Personal Information they 

access through or receive from each Covered Business, and contractually require service 
providers to implement and maintain safeguards for Personal Information; and 

I.  Evaluate and adjust the Information Security Program in light of any changes to its 

operations or business arrangements, a Covered Incident, or any other circumstances that 
Respondents know or have reason to know may have an impact on the effectiveness of 

4  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the Information Security Program.  At a minimum, each Covered Business must evaluate 
the Information Security Program at least once every twelve (12) months and modify the 
Information Security Program based on the results. 

II. 

Information Security Assessments by a Third Party 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, in connection with compliance with Provision I of 
this Order titled Mandated Information Security Program, Respondents must obtain initial and 
biennial assessments (“Assessments”): 

A.  The Assessments must be obtained from a qualified, objective, independent third-party 
professional (“Assessor”), who: (1) uses procedures and standards generally accepted in 
the profession; (2) conducts an independent review of the Information Security Program; 
and (3) retains all documents relevant to each Assessment for five (5) years after 
completion of such Assessment and will provide such documents to the Commission 
within ten (10) days of receipt of a written request from a representative of the 
Commission.  No documents may be withheld on the basis of a claim of confidentiality, 
proprietary or trade secrets, work product protection, attorney client privilege, statutory 
exemption, or any similar claim. 

B.  For each Assessment, Respondents shall provide the Associate Director for Enforcement 
for the Bureau of Consumer Protection at the Federal Trade Commission with the name 
and affiliation of the person selected to conduct the Assessment, which the Associate 
Director shall have the authority to approve in his sole discretion. 

C.  The reporting period for the Assessments must cover: (1) the first 180 days after the 
issuance date of the Order for the initial Assessment; and (2) each 2-year period 
thereafter for twenty (20) years after issuance of the Order for the biennial Assessments. 

D.  Each Assessment must: (1) determine whether each Covered Business has implemented 
and maintained the Information Security Program required by Provision I of this Order, 
titled Mandated Information Security Program; (2) assess the effectiveness of each 
Covered Business’s implementation and maintenance of sub-Provisions I.A-I; (3) identify 
any gaps or weaknesses in the Information Security Program; and (4) identify specific 
evidence (including, but not limited to documents reviewed, sampling and testing 
performed, and interviews conducted) examined to make such determinations, 
assessments, and identifications, and explain why the evidence that the Assessor 
examined is sufficient to justify the Assessor’s findings.  No finding of any Assessment 
shall rely solely on assertions or attestations by a Covered Business’s management.  The 
Assessment shall be signed by the Assessor and shall state that the Assessor conducted an 
independent review of the Information Security Program, and did not rely solely on 
assertions or attestations by a Covered Business’s management. 

E.  Each Assessment must be completed within sixty (60) days after the end of the reporting 
period to which the Assessment applies.  Unless otherwise directed by a Commission 
representative in writing, Respondents must submit the initial Assessment to the 

5  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commission within ten (10) days after the Assessment has been completed via email to 
DEbrief@ftc.gov or by overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal Service) to Associate 
Director for Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 
600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC  20580.  The subject line must begin, 
“In re InfoTrax Systems, L.C. and Mark Rawlins, FTC File No. 1623130, FTC Docket 
No. C-4696.”  All subsequent biennial Assessments shall be retained by Respondents 
until the order is terminated and provided to the Associate Director for Enforcement 
within ten (10) days of request. 

III. Cooperation with Third Party Information Security Assessor 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondents, whether acting directly or indirectly, in 

connection with any Assessment required by Provision II of this Order titled Information 
Security Assessments by a Third Party, must: 

A.  Disclose all material facts to the Assessor, and not misrepresent in any manner, expressly 

or by implication, any fact material to the Assessor’s: (1) determination of whether 
Respondents have implemented and maintained the Information Security Program 
required by Provision I of this Order, titled Mandated Information Security Program; (2) 
assessment of the effectiveness of the implementation and maintenance of sub-Provisions 
I.A-I; or (3) identification of any gaps or weaknesses in the Information Security 
Program; and 

B.  Provide or otherwise make available to the Assessor all information and material in their 
possession, custody, or control that is relevant to the Assessment for which there is no 
reasonable claim of privilege. 

IV. Annual Certification 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, in connection with compliance with Provision I of 

this Order titled Mandated Information Security Program, Respondents shall: 

A.  One year after the issuance date of this Order, and each year thereafter, provide the 

Commission with a certification from a senior corporate manager, or, if no such senior 
corporate manager exists, a senior officer of each Covered Business responsible for each 
Covered Business’s Information Security Program that: (1) each Covered Business has 
established, implemented, and maintained the requirements of this Order; (2) each 
Covered Business is not aware of any material noncompliance that has not been (a) 
corrected or (b) disclosed to the Commission; and (3) includes a brief description of any 
Covered Incident.  The certification must be based on the personal knowledge of the 
senior corporate manager, senior officer, or subject matter experts upon whom the senior 
corporate manager or senior officer reasonably relies in making the certification. 

B.  Unless otherwise directed by a Commission representative in writing, submit all annual 
certifications to the Commission pursuant to this Order via email to DEbrief@ftc.gov or 
by overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal Service) to Associate Director for Enforcement, 
Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue 

6  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NW, Washington, DC  20580.  The subject line must begin, “In re InfoTrax Systems, 
L.C. and Mark Rawlins, FTC File No. 1623130, FTC Docket No. C-4696.” 

V. Covered Incident Reports 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondents, for any Covered Business, within a 

reasonable time after the date of discovery of a Covered Incident, but in any event no later than 
ten (10) days after the date the Covered Business, or any of the Covered Business’s clients, first 
notifies any U.S. federal, state, or local government entity of the Covered Incident, must submit a 
report to the Commission.  The report must include, to the extent possible: 

A.  The date, estimated date, or estimated date range when the Covered Incident occurred; 

B.  A description of the facts relating to the Covered Incident, including the causes of the 

Covered Incident, if known; 

C.  A description of each type of information that triggered the notification obligation to the 

U.S. federal, state, or local government entity; 

D.  The number of consumers whose information triggered the notification obligation to the 

U.S. federal, state, or local government entity; 

E.  The acts that the Covered Business has taken to date to remediate the Covered Incident 
and protect Personal Information from further exposure or access, and protect affected 
individuals from identity theft or other harm that may result from the Covered Incident; 
and 

F.  A representative copy of each materially different notice required by U.S. federal, state, 
or local law or regulation and sent by the Covered Business or any of its clients to 
consumers or to any U.S. federal, state, or local government entity. 

Unless otherwise directed by a Commission representative in writing, all Covered 
Incident reports to the Commission pursuant to this Order must be emailed to DEbrief@ftc.gov 
or sent by overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal Service) to Associate Director for Enforcement, 
Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, 
Washington, DC  20580.  The subject line must begin, “In re InfoTrax Systems, L.C. and Mark 
Rawlins, FTC File No. 1623130, FTC Docket No. C-4696.” 

VI. Acknowledgments of the Order 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondents obtain acknowledgments of receipt of 

this Order: 

A.  Each Respondent, within ten (10) days after the effective date of this Order, must submit 
to the Commission an acknowledgment of receipt of this Order sworn under penalty of 
perjury. 

7  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B.  For twenty (20) years after the issuance date of this Order, Individual Respondent, for 

any Covered Business that Individual Respondent, individually or collectively with any 
other Respondents, is the majority owner or controls directly or indirectly, and Corporate 
Respondent must deliver a copy of this Order to:  (1) all principals, officers, directors, 
and LLC managers and members; (2) all employees having managerial responsibilities 
for conduct related to the subject matter of the Order and all agents and representatives 
who participate in conduct related to the subject matter of the Order; and (3) any business 
entity resulting from any change in structure as set forth in the Provision VII of this Order 
titled Compliance Report and Notices.  Delivery must occur within ten (10) days after the 
effective date of this Order for current personnel.  For all others, delivery must occur 
before they assume their responsibilities. 

C.  From each individual or entity to which a Respondent delivered a copy of this Order, that 
Respondent must obtain, within thirty (30) days, a signed and dated acknowledgment of 
receipt of this Order. 

VII. Compliance Report and Notices 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondents make timely submissions to the 

Commission: 

A.  One year after the issuance date of this Order, each Respondent must submit a 

compliance report, sworn under penalty of perjury, in which: 

1.  Each Respondent must:  (a) identify the primary physical, postal, and email address, 
and telephone number, as designated points of contact, which representatives of the 
Commission may use to communicate with Respondent; (b) identify all of 
Respondent’s businesses by all of their names, telephone numbers, and physical, 
postal, email, and Internet addresses; (c) describe the activities of each business, 
including the goods and services offered, the means of advertising, marketing, and 
sales, and the involvement of any other Respondent (which Individual Respondent 
must describe if he knows or should know due to his own involvement); (d) describe 
in detail whether and how Respondent is in compliance with each Provision of this 
Order, including a discussion of all of the changes Respondent made to comply with 
the Order; and (e) provide a copy of each Acknowledgment of the Order obtained 
pursuant to this Order, unless previously submitted to the Commission. 

2.  Additionally, Individual Respondent must:  (a) identify all his telephone numbers and 
all his physical, postal, email and Internet addresses, including all residences; (b) 
identify all his business activities, including any business for which such Respondent 
performs services whether as an employee or otherwise and any entity in which such 
Respondent has any ownership interest; and (c) describe in detail such Respondent’s 
involvement in each such business activity, including title, role, responsibilities, 
participation, authority, control, and any ownership.  

8  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B.  Each Respondent must submit a compliance notice, sworn under penalty of perjury, 

within fourteen (14) days of any change in the following: 

1.  Each Respondent must submit notice of any change in:  (a) any designated point 
of contact; or (b) the structure of any Corporate Respondent or any entity that 
Respondent has any ownership interest in or controls directly or indirectly that 
may affect compliance obligations arising under this Order, including:  creation, 
merger, sale, or dissolution of the entity or any subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that 
engages in any acts or practices subject to this Order. 

2.  Additionally, Individual Respondent must submit notice of any change in:  (a) 

name, including alias or fictitious name, or residence address; or (b) title or role in 
any business activity, including (i) any business for which Individual Respondent 
performs services whether as an employee or otherwise and (ii) any entity in 
which Individual Respondent has any ownership interest and over which 
Individual Respondent has direct or indirect control. For each such business 
activity, also identify its name, physical address, and any Internet address. 

C.  Each Respondent must submit notice of the filing of any bankruptcy petition, insolvency 
proceeding, or similar proceeding by or against such Respondent within fourteen (14) 
days of its filing. 

D.  Any submission to the Commission required by this Order to be sworn under penalty of 

perjury must be true and accurate and comply with 28 U.S.C. § 1746, such as by 
concluding:  “I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the United States of 
America that the foregoing is true and correct.  Executed on:  _____” and supplying the 
date, signatory’s full name, title (if applicable), and signature. 

E.  Unless otherwise directed by a Commission representative in writing, all submissions to 
the Commission pursuant to this Order must be emailed to DEbrief@ftc.gov or sent by 
overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal Service) to:  Associate Director for Enforcement, 
Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue 
NW, Washington, DC  20580.  The subject line must begin, “In re InfoTrax Systems, 
L.C., and Mark Rawlins, FTC File No. 1623130, FTC Docket No. C-4696.” 

VIII. Recordkeeping 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondents must create certain records for twenty 

(20) years after the issuance date of the Order, and retain each such record for five (5) years, 
unless otherwise specified below.  Specifically, Corporate Respondent and Individual 
Respondent, for any Covered Business that Individual Respondent, individually or collectively 
with any other Respondent, is a majority owner or controls directly or indirectly, must create and 
retain the following records: 

9  

 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  Accounting records showing the revenues from all goods or services sold, the costs 

incurred in generating those revenues, and resulting net profit or loss; 

B.  Personnel records showing, for each person providing services in relation to any aspect of 
the Order, whether as an employee or otherwise, that person’s name; addresses; telephone 
numbers; job title or position; dates of service; and (if applicable) the reason for 
termination; 

C.  Copies or records of all consumer complaints concerning the subject matter of the Order, 
whether received directly or indirectly, such as through a third party, and any response; 

D.  For five (5) years after the date of preparation of each Assessment required by this Order, 

all materials and evidence that the Assessor considered, reviewed, relied upon or 
examined to prepare the Assessment, whether prepared by or on behalf of Respondents, 
including all plans, reports, studies, reviews, audits, audit trails, policies, training 
materials, and assessments, and any other materials concerning Respondents’ compliance 
with related Provisions of this Order, for the compliance period covered by such 
Assessment; 

E.  For five (5) years from the date received, copies of all subpoenas and other 

communications with law enforcement, if such communications relate to Respondents’ 
compliance with this Order; 

F.  For five (5) years from the date created or received, all records, whether prepared by or on 
behalf of Respondents, that tend to show any lack of compliance by Respondents with 
this Order; and 

G.  All records necessary to demonstrate full compliance with each Provision of this Order, 

including all submissions to the Commission. 

IX. Compliance Monitoring 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, for the purpose of monitoring Respondents’ 

compliance with this Order: 

A.  Within ten (10) days of receipt of a written request from a representative of the 

Commission, each Respondent must: submit additional compliance reports or other 
requested information, which must be sworn under penalty of perjury, and produce 
records for inspection and copying. 

B.  For matters concerning this Order, representatives of the Commission are authorized to 
communicate directly with each Respondent.  Respondents must permit representatives 
of the Commission to interview anyone affiliated with any Respondent who has agreed to 
such an interview.  The interviewee may have counsel present. 

C.  The Commission may use all other lawful means, including posing through its 

10  

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
representatives as consumers, suppliers, or other individuals or entities, to Respondents or 
any individual or entity affiliated with Respondents, without the necessity of 
identification or prior notice.  Nothing in this Order limits the Commission’s lawful use 
of compulsory process, pursuant to Sections 9 and 20 of the FTC Act, 15 U.S.C. §§ 49, 
57b-1. 

X. Order Effective Dates 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that this Order is final and effective upon the date of its 

publication on the Commission’s website (ftc.gov) as a final order.  This Order will terminate 
twenty (20) years from the date of its issuance (which date may be stated at the end of this Order, 
near the Commission’s seal), or twenty (20) years from the most recent date that the United 
States or the Commission files a complaint (with or without an accompanying settlement) in 
federal court alleging any violation of this Order, whichever comes later; provided, however, that 
the filing of such a complaint will not affect the duration of: 

A.  Any Provision in this Order that terminates in less than twenty (20) years; 

B.  This Order’s application to any Respondent that is not named as a defendant in such 

complaint; and 

C.  This Order if such complaint is filed after the Order has terminated pursuant to this 

Provision. 

Provided, further, that if such complaint is dismissed or a federal court rules that the Respondent 
did not violate any Provision of the Order, and the dismissal or ruling is either not appealed or 
upheld on appeal, then the Order will terminate according to this Provision as though the 
complaint had never been filed, except that the Order will not terminate between the date such 
complaint is filed and the later of the deadline for appealing such dismissal or ruling and the date 
such dismissal or ruling is upheld on appeal. 

By the Commission. 

SEAL: 
ISSUED:  December 30, 2019 

April J. Tabor 
Acting Secretary 

11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
