UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION 

192 3167 

COMMISSIONERS: 

Joseph J. Simons, Chairman 
Noah Joshua Phillips 
Rohit Chopra 
Rebecca Kelly Slaughter 
Christine S. Wilson 

In the Matter of 

DECISION AND ORDER 

ZOOM VIDEO COMMUNICATIONS, INC., 
      a corporation, d/b/a ZOOM. 

DOCKET NO. C-4731

DECISION 

The Federal Trade Commission (“Commission”) initiated an investigation of certain acts 

and practices of the Respondent named in the caption. The Commission’s Bureau of Consumer 
Protection (“BCP”) prepared and furnished to Respondent a draft Complaint. BCP proposed to 
present the draft Complaint to the Commission for its consideration. If issued by the 
Commission, the draft Complaint would charge the Respondent with violations of the Federal 
Trade Commission Act. 

Respondent and BCP thereafter executed an Agreement Containing Consent Order 
(“Consent Agreement”). The Consent Agreement includes: (1) statements by Respondent that it 
neither admits nor denies any of the allegations in the Complaint, except as specifically stated in 
this Decision and Order, and that only for purposes of this action, it admits the facts necessary to 
establish jurisdiction; and (2) waivers and other provisions as required by the Commission’s 
Rules. 

The Commission considered the matter and determined that it had reason to believe that 
Respondent has violated the Federal Trade Commission Act, and that a Complaint should issue 
stating its charges in that respect. The Commission accepted the executed Consent Agreement 
and placed it on the public record for a period of 30 days for the receipt and consideration of 
public comments. The Commission duly considered any comments received from interested 
persons pursuant to Section 2.34 of its Rules, 16 C.F.R. § 2.34. Now, in further conformity with 
the procedure prescribed in Rule 2.34, the Commission issues its Complaint, makes the 
following Findings, and issues the following Order: 

1 

Findings 

1.  The Respondent is Zoom Video Communications, Inc., a Delaware corporation, with its 
principal office or place of business at 55 Almaden Boulevard, 6th Floor, San Jose, 
California 95113. 

2.  The Commission has jurisdiction over the subject matter of this proceeding and over the 

Respondent, and the proceeding is in the public interest. 

ORDER 

Definitions 

A. 

B. 

For purposes of this Order, the following definitions apply:  

“Covered Incident” means any instance in which any United States federal, state, or 
local law or regulation (“Breach Notification Law”) requires, or would require if 
recorded or livestream video or audio content from a Meeting were included as a type of 
personal information covered by such Breach Notification Law, Respondent to notify any 
U.S. federal, state, or local government entity that information collected or received, 
directly or indirectly, by Respondent from or about an individual consumer was, or is 
reasonably believed to have been, accessed or acquired without authorization. For 
purposes of this definition, “Covered Incident” does not include any instance of 
unauthorized access or acquisition of video or audio content if Respondent determines 
that such instance: (a) affected fewer than 500 Users; (b) resulted from a User accessing 
the video or audio content by using a link, password, or other access information, 
obtained directly or indirectly, as a result of its distribution by a Meeting host or 
organizer; or (c) resulted from a Meeting that is offered or made publicly accessible  by 
the Meeting host or organizer; or (d) the video or audio content was encrypted and the 
encryption key was not also accessed or acquired from Respondent by an unauthorized 
person.       

“Covered Information” means information from or about an individual, including: (a) a 
first and last name; (b) a physical address; (c) an email address or other online contact 
information, such as an instant messaging user identifier or a screen name; (d) a 
telephone number; (e) a Social Security number; (f) a driver’s license or other 
government-issued identification number; (g) a financial institution account number; 
(h) credit or debit card information; (i) recorded or livestream video or audio content, 
chat transcripts, documents, or any other multimedia content shared by Users during a 
Meeting; (j) a persistent identifier, such as a customer number held in a “cookie,” a static 
Internet Protocol (“IP”) address, a mobile device ID, or processor serial number; or 
(k) any information combined with any of (a) through (j) above. 

C. 

“Credential” or “Credentials” means the user name and password that a User utilizes 
for logging in or otherwise accessing Respondent’s products or services. 

2 

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
D. 

E. 

F. 

G. 

“Meeting” means a one-on-one or group videoconference on Respondent’s platform, 
including but not limited to, webinars and conference room videoconference connectors.  

“Meeting Service” or “Meeting Services” means all features and ancillary services 
developed by or on behalf of Respondent and used in the context of a Meeting (e.g., 
video, audio, chat, content-sharing, recording, and storage of recordings). “Meeting 
Service” or “Meeting Services” does not include any plugin, cookie, or application that is 
offered or provided by a third party, including but not limited to, applications offered by 
third parties through the Zoom app store.  

“Respondent” or “Zoom” means Zoom Video Communications, Inc., and its successors 
and assigns. 

“Third-Party Security Feature” means any feature or tool built into an internet browser 
or operating system that: (a) has been specified as a security feature in the developer’s 
official release notes; or that (b) has been identified by Zoom Security Personnel  
designated by Respondent for this purpose, based on their experience and expertise in 
secure software development principles, as a feature that protects the security of a User 
against the risk of unauthorized access, collection, disclosure, use, misuse, loss, theft, 
alteration, destruction, or other compromise of the User’s Covered Information. “Third-
Party Security Feature” does not include any software, system, feature, or tool, including 
without limitation, any plugin, cookie, or application, that is not developed by or for the 
browser or operating system developer.  

H. 

“User” means any entity or individual that uses Zoom’s Meeting Services. 

I. 

“Zoom Security Personnel” means any person(s) working by or on behalf of 
Respondent who has been trained in secure software development principles, including 
secure engineering and defensive programming concepts, such as Respondent’s Chief 
Information Security Officer. 

Provisions 

I.  Prohibited Misrepresentations  

IT IS ORDERED that Respondent, and Respondent’s officers, agents, employees, and 
attorneys, and all other persons in active concert or participation with any of them, who receive 
actual notice of this Order, whether acting directly or indirectly, in connection with any product 
or service, must not misrepresent in any manner, expressly or by implication: 

A.  Respondent’s collection, maintenance, use, deletion, or disclosure of any Covered 

Information; 

B.  The security features, or any feature that impacts a Third-Party Security Feature,  

included in any Meeting Service, or the material changes included in any updates thereof; 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
C.  The extent to which Respondent protects any Covered Information from unauthorized 

access;  

D.  The extent to which a User can control the privacy or security of any Covered 

Information collected and maintained by Respondent, and the steps the User must take to 
implement such controls; 

E.  The categories of third parties to which Respondent makes Covered Information 

accessible; or 

F.  The extent to which Respondent otherwise maintains the privacy, security, 

confidentiality, or integrity of Covered Information. 

II.  Mandated Information Security Program 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent, and any business that Respondent 

controls directly or indirectly, in connection with the collection, maintenance, use, or disclosure 
of, or provision of access to, Covered Information, must, within sixty (60) days of issuance of 
this order, establish and implement, and thereafter maintain, a comprehensive information 
security program (“Program” or “Information Security Program”) that protects the security, 
confidentiality, and integrity of such Covered Information. To satisfy this requirement, 
Respondent must, at a minimum: 

A.  Document in writing the content, implementation, and maintenance of the Program, 
including all processes and procedures that will be used to implement all Program 
policies and safeguards;  

B.  Provide the written Program and any material evaluations thereof or material updates 
thereto to Respondent’s board of directors or governing body or, if no such board or 
equivalent governing body exists, to a senior officer of Respondent responsible for 
Respondent’s Program at least once every twelve (12) months and promptly (not to 
exceed thirty (30) days) after a Covered Incident; 

C.  Designate a qualified employee or employees to coordinate and be responsible for the 

Program; 

D.  Assess and document, at least once every twelve (12) months and promptly (not to 

exceed thirty (30) days) following a Covered Incident, internal and external risks to the 
security, confidentiality, or integrity of Covered Information that could result in the 
(1) unauthorized collection, maintenance, use, or disclosure of, or provision of access to, 
Covered Information; or the (2) misuse, loss, theft, alteration, destruction, or other 
compromise of such information; 

E.  Design, implement, maintain, and document safeguards that control for the internal and 
external risks Respondent identifies to the security, confidentiality, and integrity of 
Covered Information identified in response to sub-Provision II.D. Each safeguard must 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
be based on the volume and sensitivity of Covered Information that is at risk, and the 
likelihood that the risk could be realized and result in the (1) unauthorized collection, 
maintenance, use, or disclosure of, or provision of access to, Covered Information; or the 
(2) misuse, loss, theft, alteration, destruction, or other compromise of such information. 
Such safeguards must also include: 

1.  Implementing a security review by Zoom Security Personnel designated by 

Respondent of all new Meeting Services software or software updates, prior to release 
that, at a minimum, includes: 

a.  Policies, procedures, and any applicable technical measures for reviewing all new 

Meeting Service software or software updates for commonly known 
vulnerabilities, including those identified by the Open Web Application Security 
Project (OWASP) and critical or high severity vulnerabilities in the National 
Vulnerability Database (NVD), and remediating or otherwise mitigating any such 
vulnerabilities; 

b.  Policies, procedures, and any applicable technical measures to: (i) determine 

whether any new Meeting Services software or software update is designed to 
circumvent or bypass, in whole or in part, any Third-Party Security Feature such 
that the Third-Party Security Feature no longer provides the same protection(s) 
for Users against the risk of unauthorized access, collection, disclosure, use, 
misuse, loss, theft, alteration, destruction, or other compromise of Users’ Covered 
Information; and (ii) assess the risk of unauthorized access, collection, disclosure, 
use, misuse, loss, theft, alteration, destruction, or other compromise of the User’s 
Covered Information that will result from such circumvention or bypass, based on 
the volume and sensitivity of Covered Information that is at risk, and the 
likelihood that the risk could be realized; and 

c.  Policies, procedures, and any applicable technical measures so that Respondent 
will not implement any new Meeting Services software or software update that 
has been identified under Part II.E.1.b(i) of this Order as designed to circumvent 
or bypass a Third-Party Security Feature, unless: (i) Zoom Security Personnel 
determine that the bypass or circumvention does not create a material risk of 
unauthorized access, collection, disclosure, use, misuse, loss, theft, alteration, 
destruction, or other compromise of Users’ Covered Information; or (ii) 
Respondent implements security measure(s) that offset or otherwise mitigate the 
risk(s) of unauthorized access, collection, disclosure, use, misuse, loss, theft, 
alteration, destruction, or other compromise of Users’ Covered Information that 
were identified under Part II.E.1.b(ii) of this Order;  

2.  Implementing a vulnerability management program that includes: 

a.  Conducting vulnerability scans of Respondent’s networks and systems on at least 

a quarterly basis; and  

5 

 
  
b.  Policies, procedures, and any applicable technical measures for remediating or 

otherwise mitigating any critical or high severity vulnerabilities promptly (but in 
no event later than thirty (30) days after the vulnerability is detected), unless 
Respondent documents its rationale for not doing so;  

3.  Implementing a default, randomized naming convention for recorded Meetings that 

are to be stored on Users’ local devices, and instructing Users to employ a unique file 
name when saving such recorded Meetings;  

4.  Policies, procedures, and any applicable technical measures to: (a) systematically 
classify and inventory Covered Information in Respondent’s control; (b) log and 
monitor access to repositories of Covered Information in Respondent’s control; and 
(c) limit access to Covered Information by, at a minimum, limiting employee and 
service provider access to Covered Information to what is needed to perform that 
employee or service provider’s job function;  

5.  Data deletion policies, procedures, and any applicable technical measures, including 
validating that all copies of Covered Information identified for deletion are deleted 
within thirty-one (31) days; 

6.  Policies, procedures, and any applicable technical measures designed to reduce the 

risk of online attacks resulting from the misuse of valid Credentials by unauthorized 
third parties, including: (a) requiring Users to secure their accounts with strong, 
unique passwords; (b) using automated tools to identify non-human login attempts; 
(c) rate-limiting login attempts to minimize the risk of a brute force attack; and (d) 
implementing password resets for known compromised Credentials;      

7.  Regular security training programs, on at least an annual basis, that are updated, as 
applicable, to address internal or external risks identified by Respondent under sub-
Provision II.D of this Order, and that include, at a minimum:  

a.  Security awareness training for all employees on Respondent’s security policies 
and procedures, including the requirements of this Order and the process for 
submitting complaints and concerns; and  

b.  Training in secure software development principles, including secure engineering 

and defensive programming concepts, for developers, engineers, and other 
employees that design Respondent’s products or services or that are otherwise 
responsible for the security of Covered Information;  

8.  Technical measures to monitor all of Respondent’s networks, systems, and assets 

within those networks to identify anomalous activity and/or data security events on 
Respondent’s network, including unauthorized attempts to exfiltrate Covered 
Information from Respondent’s networks;  

9.  Incident response policies, procedures, and any applicable technical measures, 

including centralized log management and documenting remedial security actions;  

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10. Technical measures designed to safeguard against unauthorized access to any network 
or system that stores, collects, maintains, or processes Covered Information, such as 
properly configured firewalls; properly configured physical or logical segmentation 
of networks, systems, and databases; and securing of remote access to Respondent’s 
networks through multi-factor authentication or similar technology except for when 
accessing such networks is for the purpose of using Meeting Services; and 

11. Protections, such as encryption, tokenization, or other same or greater protections, for 
Covered Information collected, maintained, processed, or stored by Respondent, 
including in transit and at rest;  

F.  Assess, at least once every twelve (12) months and promptly (not to exceed thirty (30) 

days) following a Covered Incident, the sufficiency of any safeguards in place to address 
the internal and external risks to the security, confidentiality, and integrity of Covered 
Information, and modify the Program based on the results; 

G.  Test and monitor the effectiveness of the safeguards at least once every twelve (12) 

months and promptly (not to exceed thirty (30) days) following a Covered Incident, and 
modify the Program based on the results. Such testing and monitoring must include 
penetration testing of Respondent’s network at least once every twelve (12) months and 
promptly (not to exceed thirty (30) days) after a Covered Incident; 

H.  Select and retain service providers capable of safeguarding Covered Information they 

access through or receive from Respondent, and contractually require service providers to 
implement and maintain safeguards for Covered Information sufficient to address the 
internal and external risks to the security, confidentiality, or integrity of Covered 
Information;  

I.  Consult with, and seek appropriate guidance from, independent, third-party experts on 

data protection in the course of establishing, implementing, maintaining, and updating the 
Program; and  

J.  Evaluate and adjust the Program in light of any changes to Respondent’s operations or 
business arrangements, a Covered Incident, new or more efficient technological or 
operational methods to control for the risks identified in sub-Provision II.D of this Order, 
or any other circumstances that Respondent knows or has reason to know may have a 
material impact on the effectiveness of the Program or any of its individual safeguards. 
At a minimum, Respondent must evaluate the Program at least once every twelve (12) 
months and modify the Program as necessary based on the results. 

III.  Independent Program Assessments by a Third Party  

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, in connection with compliance with Provision II of 

this Order, titled Mandated Information Security Program, Respondent must obtain initial and 
biennial assessments (“Assessments”): 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  The Assessments must be obtained from one or more qualified, objective, independent 

third-party professionals (“Assessor”), who: (1) uses procedures and standards generally 
accepted in the profession; (2) conducts an independent review of the Program; and 
(3) retains all documents relevant to each Assessment for five (5) years after completion 
of such Assessment and (4) will provide such documents to the Commission within ten 
(10) days of receipt of a written request from a representative of the Commission. No 
documents may be withheld by the Assessor on the basis of a claim of confidentiality, 
proprietary or trade secrets, work product protection, attorney-client privilege, statutory 
exemption, or any similar claim; 

B.  For each Assessment, Respondent must provide the Associate Director for Enforcement 
for the Bureau of Consumer Protection at the Federal Trade Commission with the 
name(s), affiliation, and qualifications of the proposed Assessor, whom the Associate 
Director shall have the authority to approve in her or his sole discretion;   

C.  The reporting period for the Assessments must cover:  (1) the first one hundred eighty 
(180) days after the Information Security Program has been put in place for the initial 
Assessment; and (2) each two-year period thereafter for twenty (20) years after issuance 
of the Order for the biennial Assessments; 

D.  Each Assessment must, for the entire assessment period:  

1.  Determine whether Respondent has implemented and maintained the Information 

Security Program required by Provision II of this Order, titled Mandated Information 
Security Program;  

2.  Assess the effectiveness of Respondent’s implementation and maintenance of sub-

Provisions II.A-J;  

3.  Identify any gaps or weaknesses in, or instances of material noncompliance with, the 

Information Security Program; 

4.  Address the status of gaps or weaknesses in, or instances of material non-compliance 
with, the Information Security Program that were identified in any prior Assessment 
required by this Order; and 

5.  Identify specific evidence (including documents reviewed, sampling and testing 
performed, and interviews conducted) examined to make such determinations, 
assessments, and identifications, and explain why the evidence that the Assessor 
examined is (a) appropriate for assessing an enterprise of Respondent’s size, 
complexity, and risk profile; and (b) sufficient to justify the Assessor’s findings. No 
finding of any Assessment shall rely primarily on assertions or attestations by 
Respondent’s management. The Assessment must be signed by the Assessor, state 
that the Assessor conducted an independent review of the Information Security 
Program and did not rely primarily on assertions or attestations by Respondent’s 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
management, and state the number of hours that each member of the assessment team 
worked on the Assessment. To the extent that Respondent revises, updates, or adds 
one or more safeguards required under Provision II of this Order during an 
Assessment period, the Assessment must assess the effectiveness of the revised, 
updated, or added safeguard(s) for the time period in which it was in effect, and 
provide a separate statement detailing the basis for each revised, updated, or 
additional safeguard; and 

E.  Each Assessment must be completed within sixty (60) days after the end of the reporting 
period to which the Assessment applies. Unless otherwise directed by a Commission 
representative in writing, Respondent must submit the initial Assessment to the 
Commission within ten (10) days after the Assessment has been completed via email to 
DEbrief@ftc.gov or by overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal Service) to Associate 
Director for Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 
600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC  20580. The subject line must begin, “In 
re Zoom Video Communications, Inc., FTC File No. 192 3167.” All subsequent biennial 
Assessments must be retained by Respondent until the order is terminated and provided 
to the Associate Director for Enforcement within ten (10) days of request. 

IV.    Cooperation with Third Party Assessor(s) 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent, whether acting directly or indirectly, in 

connection with any Assessment required by Provision III of this Order, titled Independent 
Program Assessments by a Third Party, must: 

A.  Provide or otherwise make available to the Assessor all information and material in its 
possession, custody, or control that is relevant to the Assessment for which there is no 
reasonable claim of privilege;  

B.  Provide or otherwise make available to the Assessor information about Respondent’s 

networks and all of Respondent’s IT assets so that the Assessor can determine the scope 
of the Assessment, and visibility to those portions of the networks and IT assets deemed 
in scope; and 

C.  Disclose all material facts to the Assessor, and not misrepresent in any manner, expressly 

or by implication, any fact material to the Assessor’s: (1) determination of whether 
Respondent has implemented and maintained the Information Security Program required 
by Provision II of this Order, titled Mandated Information Security Program; (2) 
assessment of the effectiveness of the implementation and maintenance of sub-Provisions 
II.A-J; or (3) identification of any gaps or weaknesses in, or instances of material 
noncompliance with, the Information Security Program. 

V.  Annual Certification 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent must: 

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  One (1) year after the issuance date of this Order, and each year thereafter, provide the 
Commission with a certification from a senior corporate manager, or, if no such senior 
corporate manager exists, a senior officer of Respondent responsible for Respondent’s 
Information Security Program that: (1) Respondent has established, implemented, and 
maintained the requirements of this Order; and (2) Respondent is not aware of any 
material noncompliance that has not been (a) corrected or (b) disclosed to the 
Commission. The certification must be based on the personal knowledge of the senior 
corporate manager, senior officer, or subject matter experts upon whom the senior 
corporate manager or senior officer reasonably relies in making the certification. 

B.  Unless otherwise directed by a Commission representative in writing, submit all annual 
certifications to the Commission pursuant to this Order via email to DEbrief@ftc.gov or 
by overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal Service) to Associate Director for Enforcement, 
Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue 
NW, Washington, DC  20580. The subject line must begin: “In re Zoom Video 
Communications, Inc., FTC File No. 192 3167.” 

VI.  Covered Incident Reports 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent, within thirty (30) days after the date of 
Respondent’s discovery of a Covered Incident, but in any event no later than ten (10) days after 
the date Respondent first notifies any U.S. federal, state, or local government entity of the 
Covered Incident, must submit a report to the Commission. The report must include, to the extent 
possible:  

A.  The date, estimated date, or estimated date range when the Covered Incident occurred;  

B.  A description of the facts relating to the Covered Incident, including the causes of the 

Covered Incident, if known;  

C.  A description of each type of Covered Information that was affected or triggered any 

notification obligation to the U.S. federal, state, or local government entity; 

D.  The number of consumers whose information was affected or that triggered the 
notification obligation to the U.S. federal, state, or local government entity;  

E.  The acts that Respondent has taken to date to remediate the Covered Incident and protect 
Covered Information from further exposure or access, and protect affected individuals 
from identity theft or other harm that may result from the Covered Incident; and  

F.  A representative copy of any materially different notice sent by Respondent to consumers 

or to any U.S. federal, state, or local government entity.  

Unless otherwise directed by a Commission representative in writing, all Covered 
Incident reports to the Commission pursuant to this Order must be emailed to DEbrief@ftc.gov 
or sent by overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal Service) to: Associate Director for Enforcement, 
Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, 

10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Washington, DC 20580. The subject line must begin: “In re Zoom Video Communications, Inc., 
FTC File No. 192 3167.” 

VII.  Acknowledgments of the Order 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent obtain acknowledgments of receipt of 

this Order: 

A.  Respondent, within ten (10) days after the effective date of this Order, must submit to the 
Commission an acknowledgment of receipt of this Order, sworn under penalty of perjury; 

B.  For five (5) years after the issuance date of this Order, Respondent must deliver a copy of 
this Order to: (a) all principals, officers, directors, and LLC managers and members; (b) 
all employees, agents, and representatives with managerial responsibilities related to the 
subject matter of the Order; and (c) any business entity resulting from any change in 
structure as set forth in the Provision titled Compliance Reports and Notices. Delivery 
must occur within ten (10) days after the effective date of this Order for current 
personnel. For all others, delivery must occur before they assume their responsibilities; 
and 

C.  From each individual or entity to which Respondent delivered a copy of this Order, 

Respondent must obtain, within thirty (30) days, a signed and dated acknowledgment of 
receipt of this Order. 

VIII.  Compliance Reports and Notices 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent make timely submissions to the 

Commission: 

A.  One (1) year after the issuance date of this Order, Respondent must submit a compliance 

report, sworn under penalty of perjury, in which Respondent must: (a) identify the 
primary physical, postal, and email address and telephone number, as designated points 
of contact, which representatives of the Commission, may use to communicate with 
Respondent; (b) identify all of Respondent’s businesses by all of their names, telephone 
numbers, and physical, postal, email, and Internet addresses; (c) describe the activities of 
each business, including the goods and services offered, and the means of collection, 
maintenance, use, deletion, or disclosure of information; (d) describe in detail whether 
and how Respondent is in compliance with each Provision of this Order; and (e) provide 
a copy of each Acknowledgment of the Order obtained pursuant to this Order, unless 
previously submitted to the Commission; 

B.  Respondent must submit a compliance notice, sworn under penalty of perjury, within 

fourteen (14) days of any change in the following: (a) any designated point of contact; or 
(b) the structure of the Respondent or any entity that Respondent has any ownership 
interest in or controls directly or indirectly that may affect compliance obligations arising 

11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
under this Order, including: creation, merger, sale, or dissolution of the entity or any 
subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts or practices subject to this Order; 

C.  Respondent must submit notice of the filing of any bankruptcy petition, insolvency 

proceeding, or similar proceeding by or against such Respondent within fourteen (14) 
days of its filing; 

D.  Any submission to the Commission required by this Order to be sworn under penalty of 

perjury must be true and accurate and comply with 28 U.S.C. § 1746, such as by 
concluding: “I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the United States of 
America that the foregoing is true and correct. Executed on:  _____” and supplying the 
date, signatory’s full name, title (if applicable), and signature; and 

E.  Unless otherwise directed by a Commission representative in writing, all submissions to 
the Commission pursuant to this Order must be emailed to DEbrief@ftc.gov or sent by 
overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal Service) to: Associate Director for Enforcement, 
Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue 
NW, Washington, DC 20580. The subject line must begin: “In re Zoom Video 
Communications, Inc., FTC File No. 192 3167.” 

IX.  Recordkeeping 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent must create certain records for five (5) 

years after the issuance date of the Order, and retain each such record for five (5) years. 
Specifically, Respondent must create and retain the following records: 

A.  Accounting records showing the revenues from all goods or services sold; 

B.  Personnel records showing, for each person providing services, whether as an employee 
or otherwise, that person’s:  name; addresses; telephone numbers; job title or position; 
dates of service; and (if applicable) the reason for termination; 

C.  Copies of all U.S. consumer complaints that were submitted to Respondent and relate to 

the subject matter of the Order, and any response(s) to such complaints; 

D.  All records necessary to demonstrate full compliance with each Provision of this Order, 

including all submissions to the Commission;  

E.  A copy of each widely disseminated and materially different representation by 

Respondent that describes (a) Respondent’s collection, maintenance, use, deletion, or 
disclosure of any Covered Information; (b) the security features, or any features that 
impact a Third-Party Security Feature, included in any Meeting Service, or the changes 
included in any updates thereof; (c) the extent to which Respondent protects Covered 
Information from unauthorized access, including any representation on any website or 
other service controlled by Respondent that relates to the privacy, security, 

12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
confidentiality, and integrity of Covered Information; (d) the extent to which a User can 
control the privacy or security of Covered Information and the steps the User must take to 
implement such controls; and (e) the categories of third parties to which Respondent 
makes Covered Information accessible; and 

F.  For five (5) years after the date of preparation of each Assessment required by this Order, 
all materials relied upon to prepare the Assessment, whether prepared by or on behalf of 
Respondent, including all plans, reports, studies, reviews, audits, audit trails, policies, 
training materials, and assessments, and any other materials concerning Respondent’s 
compliance with related Provisions of this Order, for the compliance period covered by 
such Assessment.  

X. 

Compliance Monitoring 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, for the purpose of monitoring Respondent’s 

compliance with this Order: 

A.  Within fourteen (14) days of receipt of a written request from a representative of the 

Commission, Respondent must: submit additional compliance reports or other requested 
information, which must be sworn under penalty of perjury, appear for depositions, and 
produce records for inspection and copying; 

B.  For matters concerning this Order, representatives of the Commission are authorized to 
communicate directly with Respondent. Respondent must permit representatives of the 
Commission to interview anyone affiliated with Respondent who has agreed to such an 
interview. The interviewee may have counsel present; and 

C.  The Commission may use all other lawful means, including posing through its 

representatives as consumers, suppliers, or other individuals or entities, to Respondent or 
any individual or entity affiliated with Respondent, without the necessity of identification 
or prior notice. Nothing in this Order limits the Commission’s lawful use of compulsory 
process, pursuant to Sections 9 and 20 of the FTC Act, 15 U.S.C. §§ 49, 57b-1. 

XI.   Order Effective Dates 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that this Order is final and effective upon the date of its 

publication on the Commission’s website (ftc.gov) as a final order. This Order will terminate 
twenty (20) years from the date of its issuance (which date may be stated at the end of this Order, 
near the Commission’s seal), or twenty (20) years from the most recent date that the United 
States or the Commission files a complaint (with or without an accompanying settlement) in 
federal court alleging any violation of this Order, whichever comes later; provided, however, that 
the filing of such a complaint will not affect the duration of: 

A.  Any Provision in this Order that terminates in less than twenty (20) years;  

13 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. This Order’s application to any Respondent that is not named as a defendant in such

complaint; and

C. This Order if such complaint is filed after the Order has terminated pursuant to this

Provision.

Provided, further, that if such complaint is dismissed or a federal court rules that the Respondent 
did not violate any provision of the Order, and the dismissal or ruling is either not appealed or 
upheld on appeal, then the Order will terminate according to this Provision as though the 
complaint had never been filed, except that the Order will not terminate between the date such 
complaint is filed and the later of the deadline for appealing such dismissal or ruling and the date 
such dismissal or ruling is upheld on appeal. 

By the Commission, Commissioners Chopra and Slaughter dissenting. 

April J. Tabor 
Acting Secretary 

SEAL: 
ISSUED: January 19, 2021 

14 

