UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION 

1923140

COMMISSIONERS:

Joseph J. Simons, Chairman
Noah Joshua Phillips
Rohit Chopra
Rebecca Kelly Slaughter
Christine S. Wilson

In the Matter of

SKYMED INTERNATIONAL, INC., 

also doing business as SkyMed Travel
and Car Rental Pro,
a Nevada corporation.

DECISION AND ORDER 

DOCKET NO. C-4732

DECISION

The Federal Trade Commission (“Commission”) initiated an investigation of certain acts 
and practices of the Respondent named in the caption. The Commission’s Bureau of Consumer 
Protection (“BCP”) prepared and furnished to Respondent a draft Complaint.  BCP proposed to 
present the draft Complaint to the Commission for its consideration.  If issued by the 
Commission, the draft Complaint would charge the Respondent with violations of the Federal 
Trade Commission Act, 15 U.S.C. § 45(a)(1).

Respondent and BCP thereafter executed an Agreement Containing Consent Order 
(“Consent Agreement”).  The Consent Agreement includes: (1) statements by Respondent that it
neither admits nor denies any of the allegations in the draft Complaint, except as specifically 
stated in this Decision and Order, and that only for purposes of this action, it admits the facts 
necessary to establish jurisdiction; and (2) waivers and other provisions as required by the 
Commission’s Rules. 

The Commission considered the matter and determined that it had reason to believe that 
Respondent has violated the Federal Trade Commission Act, and that a Complaint should issue 
stating its charges in that respect.  The Commission accepted the executed Consent Agreement 
and placed it on the public record for a period of thirty (30) days for the receipt and consideration 
of public comments.  The Commission duly considered any comments received from interested 
persons pursuant to Section 2.34 of its Rules, 16 C.F.R. § 2.34.  Now, in further conformity with 
the procedure prescribed in Rule 2.34, the Commission issues its Complaint, makes the 
following Findings, and issues the following Order:

Page 1 of 12

Findings

1. The Respondent is SkyMed International, Inc., also doing business as SkyMed Travel 

and as Car Rental Pro, a corporation with its principal office or place of business at 9089 
E. Bahia Drive, Suite 100, Scottsdale, AZ 85260.

2. The Commission has jurisdiction over the subject matter of this proceeding and over 

Respondent, and the proceeding is in the public interest.

ORDER

Definitions

For purposes of this Order, the following definitions apply:

1. “Affected Consumers” means all consumers that received an email from Respondent on
or around May 2, 2019 with the subject line, “IMPORTANT MESSAGE relative to 
SkyMed data exposure.”

2. “Covered Incident” means any instance in which (a) any United States federal, state, or 
local law or regulation requires Respondent to notify any U.S. federal, state, or local 
government entity that information collected or received, directly or indirectly, by 
Respondent from or about an individual consumer was, or is reasonably believed to have 
been, accessed or acquired without authorization; or (b) individually identifiable Health 
Information from or about an individual consumer was, or is reasonably believed to have 
been, accessed, acquired, or publicly exposed without authorization.

3. “Health Information” means information relating to the health of an individual consumer, 

including but not limited to medical history information, prescription information, 
hospitalization information, clinical laboratory testing information, health insurance 
information, or physician exam notes.

4. “Personal Information” means individually identifiable information from or about an 

individual consumer, including: (a) a first and last name; (b) a home or physical address, 
including street name and name of city or town; (c) an email address or other online 
contact information; (d) a mobile or other telephone number; (e) a date of birth; (f) a
government-issued identification number, such as a driver’s license, military 
identification, passport, or Social Security number, or other personal identification 
number; (g) credit card or other financial account information; (h) Health Information; or 
(i) user account credentials, such as a login name and password.

5. “Respondent” means SkyMed International, Inc., its successors and assigns, and Global 

Emergency Travel Services, and its successors and assigns.

Page 2 of 12

Provisions

I.

Prohibition Against Misrepresentations

IT IS ORDERED that Respondent; Respondent’s officers, agents, employees, and 

attorneys; and all other persons in active concert or participation with any of them, who receive 
actual notice of this Order, whether acting directly or indirectly, in connection with any product 
or service, must not misrepresent in any manner, expressly or by implication:

A. The extent to which Respondent is a member of, adheres to, complies with, is certified 

by, is endorsed by, or otherwise participates in any privacy or security program 
sponsored by a government or any third party, including any self-regulatory or standard-
setting organization;

B. The extent of any Covered Incident or unauthorized disclosure, misuse, loss, theft, 

alteration, destruction, or other compromise of Personal Information;

C. The extent of any investigation and the results thereof, whether conducted by 

Respondent, a governmental agency, or a third party, into any Covered Incident or 
unauthorized disclosure, misuse, loss, theft, alteration, destruction, or other compromise 
of Personal Information;

D. The extent to which Respondent collects, maintains, uses, discloses, deletes, or permits or 

denies access to any Personal Information; and

E. The extent to which Respondent otherwise protects the privacy, security, availability, 

confidentiality, or integrity of any Personal Information.

II.

Required Notice to Consumers About Respondent’s Security Incident Response

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, within fourteen (14) days after the effective date of 

this Order, Respondent must directly notify all Affected Consumers by sending an email, 
consisting solely of an exact copy of the notice attached hereto as Exhibit A (“Notice”), with the 
subject line “Update:  May 2019 Data Exposure.” Respondent shall not include with the Notice
any other information, documents, or attachments.

III. Mandated Information Security Program

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent, in connection with the collection, 
maintenance, use, disclosure, or provision of access to Personal Information, must, within thirty 
(30) days of issuance of this Order, establish and implement, and thereafter maintain, a 
comprehensive Information Security Program (“Information Security Program”) that protects the 
security, confidentiality, and integrity of Personal Information.  To satisfy this requirement, 
Respondent must, at a minimum:

Page 3 of 12

A. Document in writing the content, implementation, and maintenance of the Information 

Security Program;

B. Provide the written program and any evaluations thereof or updates thereto to 

Respondent’s board of directors or governing body or, if no such board or equivalent 
governing body exists, to a senior officer of Respondent responsible for Respondent’s 
Information Security Program at least once every twelve (12) months and promptly (not 
to exceed thirty (30) days) after a Covered Incident;

C. Designate a qualified employee or employees to coordinate and be responsible for the 

Information Security Program;

D. Assess and document, at least once every twelve (12) months and promptly (not to 

exceed thirty (30) days) following a Covered Incident, internal and external risks to the 
security, confidentiality, or integrity of Personal Information that could result in the (1) 
unauthorized collection, maintenance, use, disclosure of, or provision of access to, 
Personal Information; or the (2) misuse, loss, theft, alteration, destruction, or other 
compromise of such information;

E. Design, implement, maintain, and document safeguards that control for the internal and 
external risks Respondent identifies to the security, confidentiality, or integrity of 
Personal Information identified in response to sub-Provision III.D.  Each safeguard must
be based on the volume and sensitivity of the Personal Information that is at risk, and the 
likelihood that the risk could be realized and result in the (1) unauthorized collection, 
maintenance, use, disclosure of, or provision of access to, Personal Information; or the 
(2) misuse, loss, theft, alteration, destruction, or other compromise of such information.
Such safeguards must also include:

1. Policies, procedures, and technical measures to systematically inventory Personal 

Information in Respondent’s control and delete Personal Information that is no longer 
necessary; 

2. Policies, procedures, and technical measures to log and monitor access to repositories 

of Personal Information in Respondent’s control;

3. Encryption of, at a minimum, all passport numbers, financial account information,

and Health Information in Respondent’s control.

4. Training of all of Respondent’s employees, at least once every twelve (12) months,

on how to safeguard Personal Information;

5. Technical measures to monitor all of Respondent’s networks, including all systems 

and assets within those networks, to identify data security events, including 
unauthorized attempts to exfiltrate Personal Information from those networks; and

Page 4 of 12

6. Data access controls for all repositories of Personal Information in Respondent’s
control, such as (a) restricting inbound connections to approved IP addresses, (b)
requiring authentication to access them, and (c) limiting employee access to what is 
needed to perform that employee’s job function.

F. Assess, at least once every twelve (12) months and promptly (not to exceed thirty (30) 

days) following a Covered Incident, the sufficiency of any safeguards in place to address 
the risks to the security, confidentiality, or integrity of Personal Information, and modify 
the Information Security Program based on the results;

G. Test and monitor the effectiveness of the safeguards in place at least once every twelve 

(12) months and promptly (not to exceed thirty (30) days) following a Covered Incident, 
and modify the Information Security Program based on the results.  Such testing and 
monitoring must include: (1) vulnerability testing of Respondent’s network once every 
four (4) months and promptly (not to exceed thirty (30) days) after a Covered Incident,
and (2) periodic penetration testing of Respondent’s network and promptly (not to exceed 
thirty (30) days) after a Covered Incident;

H. Select and retain service providers capable of safeguarding Personal Information they 

access through or receive from Respondent, and contractually require service providers to 
implement and maintain safeguards for Personal Information; and 

I. Evaluate and adjust the Information Security Program in light of any changes to 

Respondent’s operations or business arrangements, a Covered Incident, or any other 
circumstances that Respondent knows or has reason to know may have an impact on the 
effectiveness of the Information Security Program.  At a minimum, Respondent must 
evaluate the Information Security Program at least once every twelve (12) months and 
modify the Information Security Program based on the results.

IV.

Information Security Assessments by a Third Party

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, in connection with compliance with Provision III of 

this Order, titled Mandated Information Security Program, Respondent must obtain initial and 
biennial assessments (“Assessments”):

A. The Assessments must be obtained from a qualified, objective, independent third-party 

professional (“Assessor”), who: (1) uses procedures and standards generally accepted in 
the profession; (2) conducts an independent review of the Information Security Program;
and (3) retains all documents relevant to each Assessment for five (5) years after 
completion of such Assessment and will provide such documents to the Commission
within ten (10) days of receipt of a written request from a representative of the 
Commission.  No documents may be withheld on the basis of a claim of confidentiality, 
proprietary or trade secrets, work product protection, attorney client privilege, statutory 
exemption, or any similar claim.

Page 5 of 12

B. For each Assessment, Respondent must provide the Associate Director for Enforcement 
for the Bureau of Consumer Protection at the Federal Trade Commission with the name,
affiliation, and qualifications of the proposed Assessor, who the Associate Director shall 
have the authority to approve in his sole discretion.

C. The reporting period for the Assessments must cover:  (1) the first 180 days after the 
issuance date of the Order for the initial Assessment; and (2) each two-year period 
thereafter for twenty (20) years after issuance of the Order for the biennial Assessments.

D. Each Assessment must, for the entire assessment period:

1. determine whether Respondent has implemented and maintained the Information 

Security Program required by Provision III;

2. assess the effectiveness of Respondent’s implementation and maintenance of sub-

Provisions III.A-I;

3.

identify any gaps or weaknesses in, or instances of material noncompliance with, the 
Information Security Program;

4. address the status of gaps or weaknesses in, or instances of material non-compliance 
with, the Information Security Program that were identified in any prior Assessment 
required by this Order; and

5.

identify specific evidence (including, but not limited to, documents reviewed, 
sampling and testing performed, and interviews conducted) examined to make such 
determinations, assessments, and identifications, and explain why the evidence that 
the Assessor examined is (a) appropriate for assessing an enterprise of Respondent’s 
size, complexity, and risk profile; and (b) sufficient to justify the Assessor’s findings.
No finding of any Assessment shall rely solely on assertions or attestations by 
Respondent’s management.  The Assessment must be signed by the Assessor, state 
that the Assessor conducted an independent review of the Information Security 
Program and did not rely solely on assertions or attestations by Respondent’s 
management, and state the number of hours that each member of the assessment team 
worked on the Assessment.  To the extent Respondent revises, updates, or adds one or 
more safeguards required under Provision III in the middle of an Assessment period, 
the Assessment must assess the effectiveness of the revised, updated, or added 
safeguard(s) for the time period in which it was in effect, and provide a separate 
statement detailing the basis for each revised, updated, or additional safeguard.  

E. Each Assessment must be completed within sixty (60) days after the end of the reporting 
period to which the Assessment applies.  Unless otherwise directed by a Commission 
representative in writing, Respondent must submit the initial Assessment to the 
Commission within ten (10) days after the Assessment has been completed via email to 
DEbrief@ftc.gov or by overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal Service) to: Associate 
Director for Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 

Page 6 of 12

600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC  20580. The subject line must begin, 
“In re SkyMed International, FTC File No. 1923140.” All subsequent biennial 
Assessments must be retained by Respondent until the Order is terminated and provided 
to the Associate Director for Enforcement within ten (10) days of request.

V.

Cooperation with Third-Party Information Security Assessor

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent, whether acting directly or indirectly, in 

connection with any Assessment required by Provision IV must:

A. Provide or otherwise make available to the Assessor all information and material in its 
possession, custody, or control that is relevant to the Assessment for which there is no 
reasonable claim of privilege;

B. Provide or otherwise make available to the Assessor information about Respondent’s 

networks and all of Respondent’s IT assets so that the Assessor can determine the scope 
of the Assessment, and visibility to those portions of the networks and IT assets deemed 
in scope; and

C. Disclose all material facts to the Assessor, and not misrepresent in any manner, expressly 
or by implication, any fact material to the Assessor’s: (1) determination of whether 
Respondent has implemented and maintained the Information Security Program required 
by Provision III; (2) assessment of the effectiveness of the implementation and 
maintenance of sub-Provisions III.A-I; or (3) identification of any gaps or weaknesses in,
or instances of material noncompliance with, the Information Security Program.

VI.

Annual Certification

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent must:

A. One year after the issuance date of this Order, and each year thereafter, provide the 

Commission with a certification from a senior corporate manager, or, if no such senior 
corporate manager exists, a senior officer of Respondent responsible for Respondent’s 
Information Security Program that: (1) Respondent has established, implemented, and 
maintained the requirements of this Order; (2) Respondent is not aware of any material
noncompliance that has not been (a) corrected or (b) disclosed to the Commission; and 
(3) includes a brief description of all Covered Incidents that Respondent verified or 
confirmed during the certified period. The certification must be based on the personal 
knowledge of the senior corporate manager, senior officer, or subject matter experts upon 
whom the senior corporate manager or senior officer reasonably relies in making the 
certification.

B. Unless otherwise directed by a Commission representative in writing, submit all annual 
certifications to the Commission pursuant to this Order via email to DEbrief@ftc.gov or 
by overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal Service) to: Associate Director for
Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 600 

Page 7 of 12

Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC  20580. The subject line must begin, “In re 
SkyMed International, FTC File No. 1923140.”

VII. Covered Incident Reports

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent, within thirty (30) days after 
Respondent’s discovery of a Covered Incident, must submit a report to the Commission. The 
report must include, to the extent possible:

A. The date, estimated date, or estimated date range when the Covered Incident occurred;

B. A description of the facts relating to the Covered Incident, including the causes and scope 

of the Covered Incident, if known;

C. A description of each type of information that was affected or triggered any notification 

obligation to the U.S. federal, state, or local government entity;

D. The number of consumers whose information triggered any notification obligation to the 

U.S. federal, state, or local government entity;

E. The acts that Respondent has taken to date to remediate the Covered Incident and protect 
Personal Information from further exposure or access, and protect affected individuals 
from identity theft or other harm that may result from the Covered Incident; and

F. A representative copy of each materially different notice sent by Respondent to 

consumers or to any U.S. federal, state, or local government entity.

Unless otherwise directed by a Commission representative in writing, all Covered Incident 
reports to the Commission pursuant to this Order must be emailed to DEbrief@ftc.gov or sent by 
overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal Service) to: Associate Director for Enforcement, Bureau 
of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, 
Washington, DC  20580.  The subject line must begin, “In re SkyMed International, FTC File 
No. 1923140.”

VIII. Acknowledgments of the Order

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent obtain acknowledgments of receipt of 

this Order:

A. Respondent, within ten (10) days after the effective date of this Order, must submit to the 
Commission an acknowledgment of receipt of this Order sworn under penalty of perjury.

B. For twenty (20) years after the issuance date of this Order, Respondent must deliver a 
copy of this Order to: (1) all principals, officers, directors, and LLC managers and 
members; (2) all employees having managerial responsibilities for conduct related to the 
subject matter of the Order, and all agents, and representatives who participate in conduct 

Page 8 of 12

related to the subject matter of the Order; and (3) any business entity resulting from any 
change in structure as set forth in Provision IX.  Delivery must occur within ten (10) days 
after the effective date of this Order for current personnel.  For all others, delivery must 
occur before they assume their responsibilities.

C. From each individual or entity to which Respondent delivered a copy of this Order, 

Respondent must obtain, within thirty (30) days, a signed and dated acknowledgment of 
receipt of this Order.

IX.

Compliance Report and Notices

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent make timely submissions to the Commission:

A. One year after the issuance date of this Order, Respondent must submit a compliance 
report, sworn under penalty of perjury, in which Respondent must: (1) identify the 
primary physical, postal, and email address and telephone number, as designated points 
of contact, which representatives of the Commission, may use to communicate with 
Respondent; (2) identify all of Respondent’s businesses by all of their names, telephone 
numbers, and physical, postal, email, and Internet addresses; (3) describe the activities of 
each business, including the goods and services offered, what Personal Information is 
collected, and the means of advertising, marketing, and sales; (4) describe in detail 
whether and how Respondent is in compliance with each Provision of this Order,
including a discussion of all of the changes that Respondent made to comply with the 
Order; and (5) provide a copy of each Acknowledgment of the Order obtained pursuant to 
this Order, unless previously submitted to the Commission.

B. Respondent must submit a compliance notice, sworn under penalty of perjury, within 

fourteen (14) days of any change in the following: (1) any designated point of contact; or 
(2) the structure of Respondent or any entity that Respondent has any ownership interest 
in or controls directly or indirectly that may affect compliance obligations arising under 
this Order, including: creation, merger, sale, or dissolution of the entity or any 
subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts or practices subject to this Order.

C. Respondent must submit notice of the filing of any bankruptcy petition, insolvency 

proceeding, or similar proceeding by or against Respondent within fourteen (14) days of 
its filing.

D. Any submission to the Commission required by this Order to be sworn under penalty of 

perjury must be true and accurate and comply with 28 U.S.C. § 1746, such as by 
concluding:  “I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the United States of 
America that the foregoing is true and correct.  Executed on:  _____” and supplying the 
date, signatory’s full name, title (if applicable), and signature.

E. Unless otherwise directed by a Commission representative in writing, all submissions to 
the Commission pursuant to this Order must be emailed to DEbrief@ftc.gov or sent by 

Page 9 of 12

overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal Service) to:  Associate Director for Enforcement, 
Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue 
NW, Washington, DC  20580.  The subject line must begin, “In re SkyMed International, 
FTC File No. 1923140.”

X.

Recordkeeping

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent must create certain records for twenty 

(20) years after the issuance date of the Order, and retain each such record for five (5) years,
unless otherwise specified below.  Specifically, Respondent must create and retain the following 
records:

A. Accounting records showing the revenues from all goods or services sold, the costs 

incurred in generating those revenues, and resulting net profit or loss;

B. Personnel records showing, for each person providing services in relation to any aspect of 

the Order, whether as an employee or otherwise, that person’s:  name, addresses,
telephone numbers, job title or position, dates of service, and (if applicable) the reason 
for termination; 

C. Copies or records of all consumer complaints and refund requests, whether received 

directly or indirectly, such as through a third party, and any response;

D. A copy of each unique advertisement or other marketing material making a representation 

subject to this Order;

E. A copy of each widely disseminated representation by Respondent that describes the 
extent to which Respondent maintains or protects the privacy, security, availability, 
confidentiality, or integrity of any Personal Information, including any representation 
concerning a change in any website or other service controlled by Respondent that relates 
to privacy, security, availability, confidentiality, or integrity of Personal Information;

F. For five (5) years after the date of preparation of each Assessment required by this Order, 

all materials and evidence that the Assessor considered, reviewed, relied upon or 
examined to prepare the Assessment, whether prepared by or on behalf of Respondent,
including all plans, reports, studies, reviews, audits, audit trails, policies, training 
materials, and assessments, and any other materials concerning Respondent’s compliance 
with related Provisions of this Order, for the compliance period covered by such 
Assessment;

G. For five (5) years from the date received, copies of all subpoenas and other 

communications with law enforcement, if such communications relate to Respondent’s
compliance with this Order;

Page 10 of 12

H. For five (5) years from the date created or received, all records, whether prepared by or 
on behalf of Respondent, that tend to show any lack of compliance by Respondent with 
this Order; and

I. All records necessary to demonstrate full compliance with each Provision of this Order, 

including all submissions to the Commission.

XI.

Compliance Monitoring

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, for the purpose of monitoring Respondent’s 

compliance with this Order:

A. Within ten (10) days of receipt of a written request from a representative of the 

Commission, Respondent must: submit additional compliance reports or other requested 
information, which must be sworn under penalty of perjury, and produce records for 
inspection and copying.

B. For matters concerning this Order, representatives of the Commission are authorized to 
communicate directly with Respondent.  Respondent must permit representatives of the 
Commission to interview anyone affiliated with Respondent who has agreed to such an 
interview.  The interviewee may have counsel present.

C. The Commission may use all other lawful means, including posing through its 

representatives as consumers, suppliers, or other individuals or entities, to Respondent or 
any individual or entity affiliated with Respondent, without the necessity of identification 
or prior notice.  Nothing in this Order limits the Commission’s lawful use of compulsory 
process, pursuant to Sections 9 and 20 of the FTC Act, 15 U.S.C. §§ 49, 57b-1.

XII. Order Effective Dates

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that this Order is final and effective upon the date of its 

publication on the Commission’s website (ftc.gov) as a final order.  This Order will terminate 
twenty (20) years from the date of its issuance, (which date may be stated at the end of this 
Order, near the Commission’s seal), or twenty (20) years from the most recent date that the 
United States or the Commission files a complaint (with or without an accompanying settlement)
in federal court alleging any violation of this Order, whichever comes later; provided, however,
that the filing of such a complaint will not affect the duration of:

A. Any Provision in this Order that terminates in less than twenty (20) years;

B. This Order’s application to any Respondent that is not named as a defendant in such 

complaint; and

C. This Order if such complaint is filed after the Order has terminated pursuant to this 

Provision.

Page 11 of 12

Provided, further, that if such complaint is dismissed or a federal court rules that the Respondent
did not violate any provision of the Order, and the dismissal or ruling is either not appealed or 
upheld on appeal, then the Order will terminate according to this Provision as though the 
complaint had never been filed, except that the Order will not terminate between the date such 
complaint is filed and the later of the deadline for appealing such dismissal or ruling and the date 
such dismissal or ruling is upheld on appeal.

By the Commission.

April J. Tabor 
Secretary

SEAL:
ISSUED:  January 26, 2021

Page 12 of 12

Exhibit A 

[To appear with the SkyMed logo] 

Dear [Customer]: 

In May 2019, we notified you by email that your personal information saved in a SkyMed 

database was exposed between October 2018 and March 2019. We said that there was no 

evidence that anyone had misused it. We also said that your health information and your 

financial information were not exposed. 

We have since learned that the exposed database may have contained some members’ health 

information, possibly including yours, and which may have included whether you were 

hospitalized or took any prescription medications. In addition, the other personal information 

exposed in the database included: 

•

•

•

•

•

•

your name

your mailing address

your email address

your date of birth

your phone number

your membership number

Your Social Security number was not exposed. Neither was your financial information. 

We’ve since put in place a new information security program to protect your information. If you 

have any questions or comments about this data exposure or what we do to protect your 

information, please contact us at [[email address]]. 

Eleanore Klein 

President, SkyMed Group of Companies 

