UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
BEFORE THE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION 

192 3003 

COMMISSIONERS: 

Lina M. Khan, Chair 
Noah Joshua Phillips 
Rebecca Kelly Slaughter 
Christine S. Wilson 

In the Matter of 

SUPPORT KING, LLC, a limited 

liability company, also formerly d/b/a 
SpyFone.com, and 

SCOTT ZUCKERMAN, individually and as 

an officer of Support King, LLC 

DOCKET NO.  C-4756 

DECISION 

The Federal Trade Commission (“Commission”) initiated an investigation of certain acts 
and practices of the Respondents named in the caption. The Commission’s Bureau of Consumer 
Protection (“BCP”) prepared and furnished to Respondents a draft Complaint. BCP proposed to 
present the draft Complaint to the Commission for its consideration. If issued by the 
Commission, the draft Complaint would charge the Respondents with violations of the Federal 
Trade Commission Act. 

Respondents and BCP thereafter executed an Agreement Containing Consent Order 

(“Consent Agreement”). The Consent Agreement includes: 1) statements by Respondents that 
they neither admit nor deny any of the allegations in the Complaint, except as specifically stated 
in this Decision and Order, and that only for purposes of this action, they admit the facts 
necessary to establish jurisdiction; and 2) waivers and other provisions as required by the 
Commission’s Rules. 

The Commission considered the matter and determined that it had reason to believe that 

Respondents have violated the Federal Trade Commission Act, and that a Complaint should 
issue stating its charges in that respect. The Commission accepted the executed Consent 
Agreement and placed it on the public record for a period of thirty (30) days for the receipt and 
consideration of public comments. The Commission duly considered any comments received 
from interested Persons pursuant to Section 2.34 of its Rules, 16 C.F.R. § 2.34. Now, in further 
conformity with the procedure prescribed in Rule 2.34, the Commission issues its Complaint, 
makes the following Findings, and issues the following Order: 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. The Respondents are: 

Findings 

a.  Respondent Support King, LLC (“Support King”), also formerly doing business 
as SpyFone.com, is a Puerto Rico limited liability company with a principal 
office or principal place of business at 5900 Ave Isla Verde, Carolina, Puerto 
Rico 00979-5746. At all times material to this Complaint, acting alone or in 
concert with others, Support King has advertised, marketed, distributed, or sold 
monitoring products and services to consumers throughout the United States. 

b.  Respondent Scott Zuckerman (“Zuckerman”) is the president, founder, resident 
agent, and chief executive officer of Support King. At all times material to this 
Complaint, acting alone or in concert with others, he has formulated, directed, 
controlled, had authority to control, or participated in the acts or practices of 
Support King, including the acts and practices set forth in this Complaint. 
Among other things, Respondent Zuckerman created Support King’s websites, 
hired service providers for these websites, and signed contracts on behalf of 
Respondent Support King. His principal office or place of business is the same as 
that of Support King. 

2.  The Commission has jurisdiction over the subject matter of this proceeding and over the 

Respondents, and the proceeding is in the public interest. 

ORDER 

Definitions 

For purposes of this Order, the following definitions apply: 

A. “Clear(ly) and Conspicuous(ly)” means that a required disclosure is difficult to miss 

(i.e., easily noticeable) and easily understandable by ordinary consumers, including in all 
of the following ways: 

1.  In any communication that is solely visual or solely audible, the disclosure must 

be made through the same means through which the communication is 
presented. In any communication made through both visual and audible means, 
such as a television advertisement, the disclosure must be presented 
simultaneously in both the visual and audible portions of the communication 
even if the representation requiring the disclosure is made in only one means. 

2.  A visual disclosure, by its size, contrast, location, the length of time it 

appears, and other characteristics, must stand out from any accompanying 
text or other visual elements so that it is easily noticed, read, and understood. 

Page 2 of 14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  An audible disclosure, including by telephone or streaming video, must be 

delivered in a volume, speed, and cadence sufficient for ordinary consumers to 
easily hear and understand it. 

4.  In any communication using an interactive electronic medium, such as the 

Internet or software, the disclosure must be unavoidable. 

5.  The disclosure must use diction and syntax understandable to ordinary consumers 
and must appear in each language in which the representation that requires the 
disclosure appears. 

6.  The disclosure must comply with these requirements in each medium through 

which it is received, including all electronic devices and face-to-face 
communications. 

7.  The disclosure must not be contradicted or mitigated by, or inconsistent 

with, anything else in the communication. 

8.  When the representation or sales practice targets a specific audience, such 

as children, the elderly, or the terminally ill, “ordinary consumers” includes 
reasonable members of that group. 

B.  “Corporate Respondent” means Support King, LLC, also formerly d/b/a 

SpyFone.com, and its successors and assigns. 

C.  “Covered Business” means Corporate Respondent, any business that Corporate 

Respondent controls, directly or indirectly, and any business that Individual Respondent 
controls, directly or indirectly. 

D.  “Covered Incident” means any instance in which any United States federal, state, or 
local law or regulation requires Respondents to notify any U.S. federal, state, or local 
government entity that information collected or received, directly or indirectly, by 
Respondents from or about an individual consumer was, or is reasonably believed to 
have been, accessed or acquired without authorization. 

E.  “Individual Respondent” means Scott Zuckerman. 

F.  “Respondents” means the Individual Respondent and the Corporate Respondent, 

individually, collectively, or in any combination. 

G.  “Internet” means collectively the myriad of computer and telecommunication facilities, 
including equipment and operating software, which comprises the interconnected world- 
wide network of networks that employ the Transmission Control Protocol/Internet 
Protocol, or any predecessor or successor protocols to such protocol, to communicate 
information of all kinds by wire, radio, or other methods of transmission. 

Page 3 of 14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
H.  “Mobile Device” means any portable computing device that operates using a mobile 
operating system, including but not limited to, any smartphone, tablet, wearable, or 
sensor, or any periphery of any portable computing device. 

I.  “Monitoring Product or Service” means any software application, program, or code 

that can track or monitor a user’s activities on a Mobile Device, including but not limited 
to, the user’s text messages, web browser history, geolocation, and photos. 

J.  “Person” means any individual, partnership, corporation, trust, estate, cooperative, 

association, or other entity. 

K.  “Personal Information” means individually identifiable information from or about an 
individual consumer, including: (a) a first and last name; (b) a home or other physical 
address; (c) an email address; (d) a telephone number; (e) a Social Security number; (f) a 
driver’s license or other government issued identification number; (g) a financial account 
number; (h) credit or debit card information; (i) a date of birth; (j) a persistent identifier 
that can be used to recognize a user over time and across different Web sites or online 
services, such as a user name, a customer number held in a cookie, an Internet Protocol 
(IP) address, a processor or device serial number, or unique device identifier; (k) 
photograph, video, audio file, or contents of email or other messages; and (l) geolocation 
information sufficient to identify street name and name of a city of town. 

L.  “Purchaser” means any Person who buys or subscribes to, including on a trial basis, any 

Monitoring Product or Service provided by Respondents. 

Provisions 

I. COLLECTION OF INFORMATION 

IT IS ORDERED that Respondents, and all other Persons in active concert or participation 

with them who receive actual notice of this Order by personal service or otherwise, whether 
acting directly or indirectly, immediately disable all access to any information collected by or 
through a monitored Mobile Device and immediately cease collection of any data through any 
Monitoring Product or Service installed before the date of entry of this Order. 

II. DATA DELETION 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that within thirty (30) days after entry of this Order, 
Respondents and Respondents’ officers, agents, employees, and attorneys, and all other 
Persons in active concert or participation with any of them, who receive actual notice of this 
Order, must 

Page 4 of 14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
destroy all Personal Information collected from a Monitoring Product or Service sold 
or distributed by Respondents prior to entry of this Order. 

III. NOTICE TO PAST PURCHASERS AND MOBILE DEVICE USERS 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondents must: 

A.  Within  five  (5)  days  after  the  date  of  entry  of  this  order  post  a  Clear  and 
Conspicuous  notice  on  all  of  Corporate  Respondent’s  consumer-facing  websites, 
which will remain posted for two years after entry of this Order, and which states: 

The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) [hyperlink to 
www.ftc.gov], the nation’s consumer protection agency, recently 
alleged that Support King sold illegal monitoring products and 
services. To settle the lawsuit, Support King agreed to disable its 
monitoring products and services and tell people that it is against 
the law to monitor other adults without their permission. A 
previous notice of June 2020 inaccurately suggested the 
settlement pertained only to subscribers in the United States. The 
settlement relates to Support King’s services worldwide. 

If you think someone is illegally monitoring your phone or your 
phone was compromised by this software, please call 1-877-382- 
4357 or visit the Federal Trade Commission [hyperlink to FTC 
consumer blog post announcing settlement] for more information. 

For help, please use a different, secure phone to call the National 
Domestic Violence Hotline at 1-800-799-7233. If you’re in 
danger right now, call 911. 

B.  Send an email with the subject line “Notice of FTC Settlement: Illegal Monitoring 

Products Disabled” to Purchasers of a Monitoring Product or Service prior to entry of this 
Order, which Clearly and Conspicuously states: 

The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) [hyperlink to 
www.ftc.gov], the nation’s consumer protection agency, recently 
alleged that Support King sold illegal monitoring products and 
services. To settle the lawsuit Support King agreed to disable its 
software and let you know that it is against the law to monitor 
other adults without their permission. A previous notice of June 
2020 inaccurately suggested the settlement pertained only to 
subscribers in the United States. The settlement relates to 
Support King’s services worldwide. 

C.  Send a Clear and Conspicuous notice via on-screen notification to Mobile Device users 
with a Monitoring Product or Service installed on their Mobile Device prior to the entry 
of this Order, which shall Clearly and Conspicuously state: 

Page 5 of 14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Someone may have secretly monitored your phone. 

The Federal Trade Commission has alleged that Support King sold 
illegal monitoring products, which may have been installed on this phone. The 
software has been disabled. 

This phone may still not be secure. Photos, emails, texts, and 
location were collected from this phone. 

For details, visit [hyperlink to FTC blog] or call 877-382-4357. 

For help, call the National Domestic Violence Hotline 800-
799-7233 using a secure phone. If you’re in danger, call 911. 

IV. BAN ON MONITORING PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondents are permanently restrained and 
enjoined from licensing, advertising, marketing, promoting, distributing, or offering for sale, or 
assisting in the licensing, advertising, marketing, promoting, distributing, or offering for sale, 
any Monitoring Products or Services to consumers. 

V. PROHIBITION AGAINST MISREPRESENTATIONS 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondents, Respondents’ officers, agents, 

employees, and attorneys, and all other Persons in active concert or participation with any of 
them who receive actual notice of this Order, whether acting directly or indirectly, in connection 
with any product or service, are hereby permanently restrained and enjoined from 
misrepresenting, expressly or by implication, the extent to which Respondents work with privacy 
or security firms, and the extent to which Respondents maintain and protect the privacy, security, 
confidentiality, or integrity of Personal Information. 

VI. MANDATED INFORMATION SECURITY PROGRAM 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Corporate Respondent, and any Covered Business, must 
not transfer, sell, share, collect, maintain, or store Personal Information unless it establishes and 
implements, and thereafter maintains, a comprehensive information security program 
(“Information Security Program”) that protects the security, confidentiality, and integrity of such 
Personal Information. To satisfy this requirement, each Respondent must, at a minimum: 

A.  Document in writing the content, implementation, and maintenance of the Information 

Security Program; 

B.  Provide the written program and any evaluations thereof or updates thereto to its board 
of directors or governing body or, if no such board or equivalent governing body exists, 
to a senior officer responsible for its Information Security Program at least once every 
twelve (12) months and promptly (not to exceed thirty (30) days) after a Covered Incident; 

Page 6 of 14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C.  Designate a qualified employee or employees to coordinate and be responsible for 

the Information Security Program; 

D.  Assess and document, at least once every twelve (12) months and promptly (not to 

exceed thirty (30) days) following a Covered Incident, internal and external risks to the 
security, confidentiality, or integrity of Personal Information that could result in the 
unauthorized disclosure, misuse, loss, theft, alteration, destruction, or other compromise 
of such information; 

E.  Design, implement, maintain, and document safeguards that control for the internal and 
external risks to the security, confidentiality, or integrity of Personal Information 
identified in response to sub-Provision VI.D. Each safeguard must be based on the 
volume and sensitivity of the Personal Information that is at risk, and the likelihood 
that the risk could be realized and result in the unauthorized access, collection, use, 
alteration, destruction, or disclosure of the Personal Information. Such safeguards must 
include: 

1.  Training of all of Respondents’ employees, at least once every twelve (12) 

months, on how to safeguard Personal Information; 

2.  Technical measures to monitor all of Respondents’ networks and systems and 

assets within those networks to identify data security events, including 
unauthorized attempts to exfiltrate Personal Information from those networks; 

3.  Technical measures to secure Respondents’ web applications and mobile 

applications and address well-known and reasonably foreseeable vulnerabilities 
identified by Respondents through risk assessments and/or penetration testing; 

4.  Data access controls for all databases storing Personal Information, including 
by, at a minimum, (a) requiring authentication to access them, and (b) limiting 
employee or service provider access to what is needed to perform that 
employee’s job function; 

5.  Encryption of (a) Personal Information collected through Monitoring Products 

and Services and (b) financial account information; and 

6.  Policies and procedures to ensure that all service providers with access to 
Respondents’ network or access to Personal Information are adhering to 
Respondents’ Information Security Program. 

F.  Assess, at least once every twelve (12) months and promptly (not to exceed thirty (30) 

days) following a Covered Incident, the sufficiency of any safeguards in place to address 
the risks to the security, confidentiality, or integrity of Personal Information, and modify 
the Information Security Program based on the results. 

Page 7 of 14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
G.  Test and monitor the effectiveness of the safeguards at least once every twelve (12) 

months and promptly (not to exceed thirty (30) days) following a Covered Incident, and 
modify the Information Security Program based on the results. 

H.  Select and retain service providers capable of safeguarding Personal Information they 
receive from each Covered Business, and contractually require service providers to 
implement and maintain safeguards for Personal Information; and 

I.  Evaluate and adjust the Information Security Program in light of any changes to 

Respondents’ operations or business arrangements, a Covered Incident, or any other 
circumstances that Respondents know or have reason to know may have an impact on 
the effectiveness of the Information Security Program. At a minimum, each Covered 
Business must evaluate the Information Security Program at least once every twelve (12) 
months and modify the Information Security Program based on the results. 

VII. INFORMATION SECURITY ASSESSMENTS BY A THIRD PARTY 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, in connection with compliance with Provision VI of 

this Order titled Mandated Information Security Program, for any Covered Business that 
collects Personal Information online, Respondents must obtain initial and biennial 
assessments (“Assessments”): 

A.  The Assessments must be obtained from a qualified, objective, independent third-party 
professional (“Assessor”), who: (1) uses procedures and standards generally accepted in 
the profession; (2) conducts an independent review of the Information Security Program; 
and (3) retains all documents relevant to each Assessment for five (5) years after 
completion of such Assessment and will provide such documents to the Commission 
within ten (10) days of receipt of a written request from a representative of the 
Commission. No documents may be withheld on the basis of a claim of confidentiality, 
proprietary or trade secrets, work product, attorney client privilege, statutory exemption, 
or any similar claim. 

B.  For each Assessment, Respondents must provide the Associate Director for Enforcement 
for the Bureau of Consumer Protection at the Federal Trade Commission with the name 
and affiliation of the Person selected to conduct the Assessment, which the Associate 
Director shall have the authority to approve in his or her sole discretion. 

C.  The reporting period for the Assessments must cover: (1) the first one-hundred eighty 
(180) days after the issuance date of the Order for the initial Assessment; and (2) each 
two (2)-year period thereafter for twenty (20) years after issuance of the Order for the 
biennial Assessments. 

D.  Each Assessment must, for the entire Assessment period: (1) determine whether each 
Covered Business has implemented and maintained the Information Security Program 
required by Provision VI of this Order, titled Mandated Information Security Program; 
(2) assess the effectiveness of each Covered Business’s implementation and 
maintenance of sub-Provisions VI.A-I; (3) identify any gaps or weaknesses in, or 

Page 8 of 14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
instances of material noncompliance with, the Security Program; and (4) identify 
specific evidence (including, but not limited to, documents reviewed, sampling and 
testing performed, and interviews conducted) examined to make such determinations, 
assessments, and identifications, and explain why the evidence that the Assessor 
examined is sufficient to justify the Assessor’s findings. No finding of any Assessment 
shall rely solely on assertions or attestations by a Covered Business’s management. The 
Assessment must be signed by the Assessor and must state that the Assessor conducted 
an independent review of the Information Security Program and did not rely solely on 
assertions or attestations by a Covered Business’s management. To the extent that 
Respondents revise, update, or add one or more safeguards required under Provision VII 
of this Order in the middle of an Assessment period, the Assessment shall assess the 
effectiveness of the revised, updated, or added safeguard(s) for the time period in which 
it was in effect, and provide a separate statement detailing the basis for each revised, 
updated, or additional safeguard. 

E.  Each Assessment must be completed within sixty (60) days after the end of the reporting 
period to which the Assessment applies. Unless otherwise directed by a Commission 
representative in writing, Respondents must submit the initial Assessment to the 
Commission within 10 days after the Assessment has been completed via email to 
DEbrief@ftc.gov or by overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal Service) to Associate 
Director for Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 
600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20580. The subject line must begin, 
“Support King, LLC, FTC File No. 192 3003.” All subsequent biennial Assessments 
must be retained by Respondents until the order is terminated and provided to the 
Associate Director for Enforcement within ten (10) days of request. 

VIII. COOPERATION WITH THIRD PARTY INFORMATION SECURITY 

ASSESSOR 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondents, whether acting directly or indirectly, in 

connection with any Assessment required by Provision VII of this Order titled Information 
Security Assessments by a Third Party, must: 

A.  Provide or otherwise make available to the Assessor all information and material in its 
possession, custody, or control, that is relevant to the Assessment for which there is no 
reasonable claim of privilege. 

B.  Disclose all material facts to the Assessor, and not misrepresent in any manner, expressly 

or by implication, any fact material to the Assessor’s: (1) determination of whether 
Respondents have implemented and maintained the Information Security Program 
required by Provision VI of this Order, titled Mandated Information Security Program; 
(2) assessment of the effectiveness of the implementation and maintenance of sub- 
Provisions VI.A-I; or (3) identification of any gaps or weaknesses in the Information 
Security Program. 

Page 9 of 14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
IX.  ANNUAL CERTIFICATION 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondents must: 

A.  One year after the issuance date of this Order, and each year thereafter, provide the 

Commission with a certification from a senior corporate manager, or, if no such senior 
corporate manager exists, a senior officer of each Covered Business responsible for each 
Covered Business’s Information Security Program that: (1) each Covered Business has 
established, implemented, and maintained the requirements of this Order; (2) each 
Covered Business is not aware of any material noncompliance that has not been (a) 
corrected or (b) disclosed to the Commission; and (3) includes a brief description of any 
Covered Incident. The certification must be based on the personal knowledge of the 
senior corporate manager, senior officer, or subject matter experts upon whom the senior 
corporate manager or senior officer reasonably relies in making the certification. 

B.  Unless otherwise directed by a Commission representative in writing, submit all annual 
certifications to the Commission pursuant to this Order via email to DEbrief@ftc.gov or 
by overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal Service) to Associate Director for Enforcement, 
Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue 
NW, Washington, DC 20580. The subject line must begin, “Support King, LLC, FTC 
File No. 192 3003.” 

X. 

COVERED INCIDENT REPORTS 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondents, for any Covered Business, within a 

reasonable time after the date of Respondents’ discovery of a Covered Incident, but in any event 
no later than twenty-one (21) days after the date Respondents first notify any U.S. federal, state, 
or local government entity of the Covered Incident, must submit a report to the Commission. 
The report must include, to the extent possible: 

A.  The date, estimated date, or estimated date range when the Covered Incident occurred; 

B.  A description of the facts relating to the Covered Incident, including the causes and 

scope of the Covered Incident, if known; 

C.  A description of each type of information that triggered the notification obligation to the 

U.S. federal, state, or local government entity; 

D.  The number of consumers whose information triggered the notification obligation to the 

U.S. federal, state, or local government entity; 

E.  The acts that the Covered Business has taken to date to remediate the Covered Incident 
and protect Personal Information from further exposure or access, and protect affected 
individuals from identity theft or other harm that may result from the Covered Incident; 
and 

Page 10 of 14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
F.  A representative copy of each materially different notice required by U.S. federal, state, 
or local law or regulation and sent by the Covered Business or any of its clients to 
consumers or to any U.S. federal, state, or local government entity. 

Unless otherwise directed by a Commission representative in writing, all Covered Incident 
reports to the Commission pursuant to this Order must be emailed to DEbrief@ftc.gov or sent by 
overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal Service) to Associate Director for Enforcement, Bureau of 
Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, 
DC 20580. The subject line must begin, “Support King, LLC, FTC File No. 192 3003.” 

XI. ORDER ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondents obtain acknowledgments of receipt of this 

Order: 

A.  Each Respondent, within seven (7) days after the effective date of this Order, must 
submit to the Commission an acknowledgment of receipt of this Order sworn under 
penalty of perjury. 

B.  For five (5) years after entry of this Order, the Individual Respondent for any business 
that such Respondent, individually or collectively with any the other Respondent, is the 
majority owner or controls directly or indirectly, and the Corporate Respondent, must 
deliver a copy a copy of this Order to: (1) all principals, officers, directors, and LLC 
managers and members; (2) all employees having managerial responsibilities for conduct 
related to the subject matter of the Order, and all agents and representatives who 
participate in conduct related to the subject matter of the Order; and (3) any business 
entity resulting from any change in structure as set forth in the Provision titled 
Compliance Reporting. Delivery must occur within seven (7) days of entry of this Order 
for current personnel. For all others, delivery must occur before they assume their 
responsibilities. 

C.  From each individual or entity to which a Respondent delivered a copy of this Order, 

that Respondent must obtain, within thirty (30) days, a signed and dated 
acknowledgment of receipt of this Order. 

XII. COMPLIANCE REPORTING 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondents make timely submissions to the 

Commission: 

A.  One year after entry of this Order, each Respondent must submit a compliance report, 

sworn under penalty of perjury, in which: 

1.  Each Respondent must: (a) identify the primary physical, postal, and email 
address and telephone number, as designated points of contact, which 
representatives of the Commission may use to communicate with 
Respondents; 

Page 11 of 14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) identify all of the Respondents’ businesses by all of their names, telephone 
numbers, and physical, postal, email, and Internet addresses; (c) describe the 
activities of each business, including the goods and services offered, the means of 
advertising, marketing, and sales, and the involvement of any other Respondent 
(which Individual Respondent must describe if he knows or should know due to his 
own involvement); (d) describe in detail whether and how that Respondent is in 
compliance with each Provision of this Order, including a discussion of all of the 
changes Respondents made to comply with the Order; and (e) provide a copy of 
each Order Acknowledgment obtained pursuant to this Order, unless previously 
submitted to the Commission. 

2.  Additionally, the Individual Respondent must: (a) identify all telephone numbers 
and all physical, postal, email and Internet addresses, including all residences; (b) 
identify all business activities, including any business for which Individual 
Respondent performs services whether as an employee or otherwise and any 
entity in which Individual Respondent has any ownership interest; and (c) 
describe in detail Individual Respondent’s involvement in each such business, 
including title, role, responsibilities, participation, authority, control, and any 
ownership. 

B.  For  ten  (10)  years  after  entry  of  this  Order,  each  Respondent  must  submit  a 
compliance notice, sworn under penalty of perjury, within fourteen (14) days of any 
changes in the following: 

1.  Each Respondent must report any change in: (a) any designated point of contact; 
or (b) the structure of Corporate Respondent or any entity that Respondent has 
any ownership interest in or control directly or indirectly that may affect 
compliance obligations arising under this Order, including: creation, merger, sale, 
or dissolution of the entity or any subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that engages in 
any acts or practices subject to this Order. 

2.  Additionally, Individual Respondent must report any change in: (a) name, 

including aliases or fictitious name, or residence address; or (b) title or role in 
any business activity, including (i) any business for which Individual 
Respondent performs services whether as an employee or otherwise and (ii) any 
entity in which Individual Respondent has any ownership interest and over 
which Individual Respondent has direct or indirect control. For each such 
business activity, also identify its name, physical address, and any Internet 
address. 

C.  Each Respondent must submit to the Commission notice of the filing of any bankruptcy 
petition, insolvency proceeding, or similar proceeding by or against such Respondent within 
fourteen (14) days of its filing. 

D.  Any submission to the Commission required by this Order to sworn under penalty of 
perjury must be true and accurate and comply with 28 U.S.C. § 1746, such as by 
concluding: “I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the United States of 
” and supplying the 
America that the foregoing is true and correct. Executed on: 

Page 12 of 14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
date, signatory’s full name, title (if applicable), and signature. 

E.  Unless otherwise directed by a Commission representative in writing, all submissions to 
the Commission pursuant to this Order must be emailed to DEbrief@ftc.gov or sent by 
overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal Service) to: Associate Director for Enforcement, 
Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue 
NW, Washington, DC 20580. The subject line must begin: “Support King, LLC, FTC 
File No. 192 3003.” 

XIII.  RECORDKEEPING 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondents must create certain records for ten 

(10) years after the issuance date of this Order and retain each such record for five (5) 
years. Specifically, Corporate Respondent and Individual Respondent, for any business that 
such Respondent, individually or collectively with any other Respondents, is a majority 
owner or controls directly or indirectly, must create and retain the following records: 

A.  Accounting records showing the revenues from all goods or services sold; 

B.  Personnel records showing, for each Person providing services, whether as an employee 

or otherwise, that Person’s: name; address; telephone numbers; job title or position; dates 
of service; and (if applicable) the reason for termination; 

C.  All records necessary to demonstrate full compliance with each provision of this Order, 

including all submissions to the Commission and all attestations; and 

D.  A copy of each unique advertisement or other marketing material. 

XIV. COMPLIANCE MONITORING 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, for the purpose of monitoring Respondents’ compliance 

with this Order: 

A.  Within ten (10) days of receipt of a written request from a representative of the 

Commission, each Respondent must: submit additional compliance reports or other 
requested information, which must be sworn under penalty of perjury; appear for 
depositions; and produce documents for inspection and copying. 

B.  For matters concerning this Order, representatives of the Commission are authorized to 
communicate directly with each Respondent. Respondents must permit representatives 
of the Commission to interview any employee or other Person affiliated with any 
Respondent who has agreed to such an interview. The Person interviewed may have 
counsel present. 

C.  The Commission may use all other lawful means, including posing, through its 

representatives as consumers, suppliers, or other individuals or entities, to Respondents 
or any individual or entity affiliated with Respondents, without the necessity of 

Page 13 of 14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
identification of prior notice. Nothing in this Order limits the Commission’s lawful use 
of compulsory process, pursuant to Sections 9 and 20 of the FTC Act, 15 U.S.C. §§ 49, 
57b-1. 

D.  Upon written request from a representative of the Commission, any consumer reporting 
agency must furnish consumer reports concerning the Individual Respondent, pursuant 
to Section 604(1) of the Fair Credit Reporting Act, 15 U.S.C. §1681b(a)(1). 

XV. ORDER EFFECTIVE DATES 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that this Order is final and effective upon the date of its 
publication on the Commission’s website (ftc.gov) as a final order. This Order will terminate on 
December 20, 2041, or twenty (20) years from the most recent date that the United States or the 
Commission files a complaint (with or without an accompanying settlement) in federal court 
alleging any violation of this Order, whichever comes later; provided, however, that the filing of 
such a complaint will not affect the duration of: 

A.  Any Provision in this Order that terminates in less than 20 years; 

B.  This Order’s application to any Respondent that is not named as a defendant in 

such complaint; and 

C.  This Order if such complaint is filed after the Order has terminated pursuant to this 

Provision. 

Provided, further, that if such complaint is dismissed or a federal court rules that the Respondent 
did not violate any provision of the Order, and the dismissal or ruling is either not appealed or 
upheld on appeal, then the Order will terminate according to this Provision as though the 
complaint had never been filed, except that the Order will not terminate between the date such 
complaint is filed and the later of the deadline for appealing such dismissal or ruling and the date 
such dismissal or ruling is upheld on appeal. 

By the Commission. 

SEAL 
ISSUED:  December 20, 2021 

April J. Tabor 
Secretary 

Page 14 of 14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
