UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION 

2023185 

COMMISSIONERS: 

Lina M. Khan, Chair   
Rebecca Kelly Slaughter 
Christine S. Wilson 
Alvaro M. Bedoya 

In the Matter of 

DRIZLY, LLC, a Limited Liability Company, 

DOCKET NO.  C-4780 

and 

JAMES CORY RELLAS, individually, and as an 
officer of DRIZLY, LLC. 

COMPLAINT 

The Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”), having reason to believe that Drizly, LLC, a 

limited liability company, and James Cory Rellas, individually and as an officer of Drizly, LLC 
(collectively “Respondents”), violated provisions of the Federal Trade Commission Act, 15 
U.S.C. § 45(a)(1), and it appearing to the Commission that this proceeding is in the public 
interest, alleges: 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

Respondent Drizly, LLC (“Drizly”) is a Delaware limited liability company with its 
principal place of business at 501 Boylston Street, Boston, MA 02216.  Until October 13, 
2021, Drizly was a subsidiary of The Drizly Group, Inc., a holding company.  On October 13, 
2021, Drizly, LLC became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Uber Technologies, Inc. (“Uber”). 

Respondent James Cory Rellas (“Rellas”), is the Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) of 
Drizly, LLC.  Individually or in concert with others, he had the authority to control, or 
participated in, the acts and practices alleged in this complaint. 

Respondents’ acts and practices as alleged in this Complaint have been in or affecting 
commerce, as “commerce” is defined in Section 4 of the Federal Trade Commission Act. 

Summary of the Case 

Drizly failed to use appropriate information security practices to protect consumers’ 
personal information.  These failures allowed a malicious actor to access Drizly’s 
consumer database and steal information relating to 2.5 million consumers, as described 
in greater detail below.  Rellas is responsible for this failure, as he did not implement, or 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

properly delegate the responsibility to implement, reasonable information security 
practices.  Indeed, as CEO of Drizly prior to and during the breach, Rellas hired senior 
executives dedicated to finance, legal, marketing, retail, human resources, product, and 
analytics, but failed to hire a senior executive responsible for the security of consumers’ 
personal information collected and maintained by Drizly.  

Drizly’s Business Model and Operations 

Drizly operates an e-commerce platform that enables local retailers to sell alcohol online 
to consumers of legal drinking age.  Retailers choose the products to offer and the prices 
to charge on the platform.  When a consumer places an order through Drizly’s website or 
one of Drizly’s mobile apps, the retailer accepts the order and facilitates delivery of the 
purchase. 

Drizly’s platform includes tools to verify a consumer’s age; monitor, track, and analyze 
orders; and support customer service.  The platform also collects and stores both personal 
information that consumers provide and information that it automatically obtains from 
consumers’ computers and mobile devices. 

Drizly was founded in 2012 and now has more than 360 employees.  The company 
maintains a headquarters in Boston, Massachusetts and an office in Denver, Colorado.  It 
advertises itself as North America’s “largest online marketplace for alcohol,” partnering 
with more than 4,000 retailers across 1,600 urban and suburban markets.  Drizly claims 
that it facilitates sales of alcohol for delivery in more than 33 states and the District of 
Columbia.  It also claims that its retail partners saw average growth in 2020 of 350%, 
with an average monthly number of orders of more than 230 per store. 

Rellas has been Drizly’s Chief Executive Officer since August 2018.  He was previously 
Drizly’s Chief Operating Officer and is a co-founder of Drizly.  At all times relevant to 
the allegations in this Complaint, Rellas had the authority to control, or participated in, 
Drizly’s information security practices. 

Drizly’s Information Technology Infrastructure 

Drizly uses a third-party service called the Amazon Relational Database Service 
(“Amazon RDS”) to host its production database environment (the software Drizly uses 
to operate its e-commerce platform).  Amazon RDS is a cloud service provided by 
Amazon Web Services (“AWS”). 

Drizly’s production environment includes a variety of applications and databases, some 
of which store personal information.  These databases contain, among other things, 
names, email addresses, postal addresses, phone numbers, unique device identifiers, order 
histories, partial payment information, geolocation information, and consumer data 
(including, e.g., income level, marital status, gender, ethnicity, existence of children, and 
home value) purchased from third parties.  The databases also contain passwords that 
were hashed—converted into new values so as not to store the password itself in the 
database.  The passwords were hashed using the bcrypt function or MD5, the latter of 
which is cryptographically broken, and widely considered insecure.  This personal 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
information can be misused to facilitate identity theft and other consumer harm.  Drizly’s 
databases contain some or all of this personal information for more than 2.5 million 
consumers. 

11. 

Drizly also uses the GitHub software platform (“GitHub”) for the development, 
management, and storage of source code that supports the Drizly website and mobile 
apps.  GitHub facilitates collaboration among developers, allowing them to store and 
share project files, including images, spreadsheets, and data sets, as well as the histories 
of all source code changes, in “repositories.”  Through its GitHub account, Drizly 
maintains a number of repositories that hold company data and projects, and which at one 
point improperly held AWS credentials, which could be used to access the company’s 
production environment. 

12. 

Drizly employees are required to use their personal GitHub accounts to access Drizly 
projects and data using GitHub, with the company granting those accounts access to its 
repositories. 

Drizly’s Information Security Practices 

13. 

Drizly failed to use reasonable information security practices to protect consumers’ 
personal information.  Among other things, Drizly failed to: 

a.  Develop adequate written information security standards, policies, procedures, or 
practices; assess or enforce compliance with the written standards, policies, 
procedures, and practices that it did have; and implement training for employees 
(including engineers) regarding such standards, policies, procedures, and 
practices; 

b.  Securely store AWS and database login credentials, by including them in GitHub 
repositories, and failed to use readily available measures to scan these repositories 
for unsecured credentials (such as usernames, passwords, API keys, secure access 
tokens, and asymmetric private keys); 

c.  Impose reasonable data access controls such as:  (1) requiring unique and 

complex passwords (i.e., long passwords not used by the individual for any other 
online service) or multifactor authentication to access source code or databases; 
(2) enforcing role-based access controls; (3) monitoring and terminating 
employee and contractor access to source code once they no longer needed such 
access; (4) restricting inbound connections to known IP addresses; and (5) 
requiring appropriate authentications between Drizly applications and the 
production environment; 

d.  Prevent data loss by monitoring for unauthorized attempts to transfer or exfiltrate 
consumers’ personal information outside the company’s network boundaries; 
continually log and monitor its systems and assets to identify data security events; 
and perform regular assessments as to the effectiveness of protection measures; 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
e.  Test, audit, assess, or review its products’ or applications’ security features; and 

conduct regular risk assessments, vulnerability scans, and penetration testing of its 
networks and databases; and 

f.  Have a policy, procedure, or practice for inventorying and deleting consumers’ 

personal information stored on its network that was no longer necessary. 

Drizly’s Information Security Statements 

14. 

Drizly made explicit representations about its information security practices that led 
consumers to believe that it used reasonable and appropriate information security 
practices to protect their personal information. 

15. 

For example, Drizly’s Privacy Policy in effect from September 1, 2016 until 
approximately October 1, 2019 included the following statement: 

Security.  All information we collect is securely stored within our 
database, and we use standard, industry-wide, commercially reasonable 
security practices such as 128-bit encryption, firewalls and SSL (Secure 
Socket Layers). 

(Exhibit A, Drizly.com Privacy Policy) 

16. 

Drizly’s Privacy Policy in effect after October 1, 2019 contained similar language: 

Security.  We use standard security practices such as encryption and firewalls to 
protect the information we collect from you. 

(Exhibit B, Drizly.com Privacy Policy) 

2020 Breach of Personal Information 

17. 

18. 

19. 

Drizly’s failures, as described in Paragraph 13, led to a breach in or around July 2020 of 
its production environment, and the exfiltration of the personal information of 2.5 million 
consumers. 

In April 2018, Drizly granted a company executive access to its GitHub repositories so 
that he could participate in a one-day hackathon (a collaborative programming event). 
Following the event, Drizly failed to monitor and terminate the executive’s access, even 
though such access was no longer needed.  The lack of need was underscored by the fact 
that the executive never accessed the repositories after the hackathon and started 
employment for a different Drizly subsidiary at the beginning of 2020. 

Drizly failed to require unique and complex passwords or multifactor authentication for 
personal GitHub accounts that it granted access to its repositories, nor did it leverage 
Single Sign On for the GitHub organization.  Consequently, the executive’s GitHub 
account used a seven-character alphanumeric password that he had used for other 
personal accounts and did not use multifactor authentication although it was available. 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

In early July 2020, a malicious actor accessed the executive’s GitHub account by reusing 
credentials from an unrelated breach.  The malicious actor then used the executive’s 
GitHub account to access one of Drizly’s GitHub repositories containing source code, 
which it could use to find vulnerabilities in Drizly’s software.  It was also able to access, 
in those same repositories, AWS and database credentials. 

Drizly employees stored these credentials in the company’s GitHub repository even 
though GitHub security guidance and numerous publicly-reported security incidents since 
2013 have highlighted the dangers of storing passwords and other access keys in GitHub 
repositories.  For example, the Commission’s 2018 Complaint against Uber Technologies 
Inc. specifically publicized and described credential reuse, lack of multifactor 
authentication, and insecure AWS credentials exposed through GitHub repository code as 
failures contributing to the breach and exposure of consumers’ personal information. 

The intruder used the compromised credentials from Drizly’s GitHub repositories to 
modify the company’s AWS security settings.  This modification provided the intruder 
unfettered access to Drizly’s production environment, including databases containing 
millions of records of user information.  The intruder proceeded to exfiltrate Drizly’s 
User Table, comprising more than 2.5 million records. 

Drizly did not itself detect the breach of its production environment or discover the 
exfiltration of the personal information of nearly 2.5 million consumers.  Drizly only 
learned of the breach from media and social media reports describing its customers’ 
accounts for sale on dark web forums. 

The GitHub compromise and breach of Drizly’s production environment was not the 
company’s first security incident involving GitHub.  In 2018, another Drizly employee 
posted Drizly AWS credentials to their individual public (personal) GitHub repository. 
The employee was unable to delete the GitHub posting or rotate the AWS credentials 
prior to the public exploitation of the credentials; as a result, Drizly’s AWS servers were 
used to mine cryptocurrency until Drizly learned of the exploitation and changed the 
credentials.  Following this incident, Respondents were on notice of the potential dangers 
of exposing AWS credentials and should have taken appropriate steps to improve GitHub 
security, including implementation of policies, procedures, and technical measures to 
address the security practices of employees with access to Drizly’s organizational GitHub 
repositories. 

25. 

Drizly’s own post-breach analyses concluded the company’s lack of security 
preparedness, including failures to operate a formal security program or practice basic 
security hygiene, was exposed as a result of a data breach. 

Consumer Injury 

26. 

27. 

Respondents’ failures to provide reasonable security for consumers’ personal information 
have caused or are likely to cause substantial injury to consumers. 

Consumers have suffered or are likely to suffer substantial injury in the form of increased 
exposure to fraud and identity theft, leading to monetary loss and time spent remedying 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the problem.  Personal information exfiltrated from Drizly’s databases was offered for 
sale on two different, publicly-accessible dark web forums, including raidforums.com, a 
website where criminals post and offer for sale information from compromised databases. 
Malicious actors combine such information to perpetrate fraud (for example, by opening 
fraudulent lines of credit) or obtain additional personal information by impersonating 
companies with whom the target has previously transacted.  The opening of fraudulent 
accounts will cause consumers financial harm in the form of denied transactions due to 
damaged credit reflected in consumer reports, and time lost in trying to correct those 
reports.  Moreover, as a result of Respondents’ failures to secure consumers’ personal 
information, including in many cases their physical addresses, this information is now in 
the possession of criminals.  Consumers are harmed when criminals know and sell their 
personal information. 

These harms were not reasonably avoidable by consumers, as consumers had no way of 
independently knowing about Respondents’ security failures (described in Paragraph 13 
above). 

Respondents could have prevented or mitigated the failures described in Paragraph 13 
through well known, readily available, and relatively low-cost measures.  For example, 
Drizly could have required regular review of access permissions, multifactor 
authentication for all employees with access to code repositories, or scanning of code 
repositories for unsecured credentials.  Any of these measures would likely have 
prevented the July 2020 breach. 

Violations of the FTC Act 

The acts and practices of Respondents, as alleged in this Complaint, constitute unfair 
and/or deceptive acts or practices, in or affecting commerce, in violation of Section 5(a) 
of the Federal Trade Commission Act. 

Count I – Drizly’s Unfair Information Security Practices 

As alleged in Paragraphs 13 to 29, Respondents’ failure to employ reasonable security 
measures to protect consumers’ personal information caused or is likely to cause 
substantial injury to consumers that is not outweighed by countervailing benefits to 
consumers or competition and is not reasonably avoidable by consumers themselves.  
This practice was, and is, an unfair act or practice. 

Count II – Drizly’s Deceptive Security Statements 

Through the means described in Paragraphs 14 to 16, Respondents have represented, 
directly or indirectly, expressly or by implication, that Drizly used appropriate safeguards 
to protect consumers’ personal information. 

In truth and in fact, as described in Paragraph 13, Respondents did not maintain 
appropriate safeguards to protect consumers’ personal information.  Therefore, the 
representations set forth in Paragraph 32 are false or misleading. 

28. 

29. 

30. 

31. 

32. 

33. 

6 

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THEREFORE, the Federal Trade Commission this 9th day of January, 2023, has issued 

this complaint against Respondents.  

By the Commission. 

SEAL: 

April J. Tabor 
Secretary 

7 

 
 
 
 
Exhibit A 

Drizly.com Privacy Policy, September 1, 2016 

 
 
 
 
Exhibit B 

Drizly.com Privacy Policy, October 1, 2019 

 
 
 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
BEFORE THE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION  

2023185 

COMMISSIONERS: 

Lina M. Khan, Chair 
Rebecca Kelly Slaughter 
Christine S. Wilson 
Alvaro M. Bedoya 

In the Matter of 

DECISION AND ORDER 

DRIZLY, LLC, a Limited Liability Company, 

DOCKET NO. C-4780

 and 

JAMES CORY RELLAS, individually, and as an 
officer of DRIZLY, LLC. 

DECISION 

The Federal Trade Commission (“Commission”) initiated an investigation of certain acts 
and practices of the Respondents named in the caption.  The Commission’s Bureau of Consumer 
Protection (“BCP”) prepared and furnished to Respondents a draft Complaint.  BCP proposed to 
present the draft Complaint to the Commission for its consideration.  If issued by the 
Commission, the draft Complaint would charge the Respondents with violations of the Federal 
Trade Commission Act, 15 U.S.C. § 45(a)(1). 

Respondents and BCP thereafter executed an Agreement Containing Consent Order 

(“Consent Agreement”).  The Consent Agreement includes:  (1) statements by Respondents that 
they neither admit nor deny any of the allegations in the draft Complaint, except as specifically 
stated in this Decision and Order, and that only for purposes of this action, they admit the facts 
necessary to establish jurisdiction; and (2) waivers and other provisions as required by the 
Commission’s Rules.  

The Commission considered the matter and determined that it had reason to believe that 

Respondents have violated the Federal Trade Commission Act, and that a Complaint should 
issue stating its charges in that respect.  The Commission accepted the executed Consent 
Agreement and placed it on the public record for a period of 30 days for the receipt and 
consideration of public comments.  The Commission duly considered any comments received 
from interested persons pursuant to Section 2.34 of its Rules, 16 C.F.R. § 2.34.  Now, in further 

Page 1 of 17 

 
 
 
 
conformity with the procedure prescribed in Rule 2.34, the Commission issues its Complaint, 
makes the following Findings, and issues the following Order: 

1.  The Respondents are: 

Findings 

a. 

b. 

Respondent Drizly, LLC (“Drizly”), a Delaware Limited Liability 
Company with its principal office or place of business at 501 Boylston 
Street, Boston, MA 02216. 

Respondent James Cory Rellas, an officer of Corporate Respondent, 
Drizly, LLC.  Individually or in concert with others, he formulates, directs, 
or controls the policies, acts, or practices of Drizly, LLC.  His principal 
office or place of business is the same as that of Drizly, LLC. 

2.  The Commission has jurisdiction over the subject matter of this proceeding and over 

Respondents, and the proceeding is in the public interest. 

ORDER 

Definitions 

For purposes of this Order, the following definitions apply: 

1.  “Covered Business” means:  (1) Corporate Respondent; and (2) any business that 

Corporate Respondent controls, directly or indirectly. 

2.  “Corporate Respondent” means Drizly, LLC, and its successors and assigns. 

3.  “Covered Incident” means any incident that results in a Covered Business notifying, 
pursuant to a statutory or regulatory requirement, any U.S. federal, state, or local 
government entity that information of or about an individual consumer was, or is 
reasonably believed to have been, accessed, acquired, or publicly exposed without 
authorization. 

4.  “Covered Information” means information from or about an individual consumer,  

including:  (a) a first and last name; (b) a home or physical address; (c) an email address 
or other online contact information, such as an instant messaging user identifier or a 
screen name; (d) a mobile or other telephone number; (e) a driver’s license or other 
government-issued identification number; (f) date of birth; (g) Geolocation information 
sufficient to identify street name and name of a city or town; (h) credit or debit card 
information (including a partial credit or debit card number); (i) User identifier, or other 
persistent identifier that can be used to recognize a User over time and across different 
devices, websites, or online services; or (j) User account credentials, such as a login name 
and password (whether plain text, encrypted, hashed, and/or salted). 

Page 2 of 17 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  “Delete” “Deleted” or “Deletion” means to remove Covered Information such that it is 
not maintained in retrievable form and cannot be retrieved in the normal course of 
business. 

6.  “Individual Respondent” means James Cory Rellas. 

7.  “Relevant Business” means any business other than a Covered Business that collects, 

uses, discloses, or stores Covered Information from 25,000 or more individual 
consumers. 

8.  “Respondents” means the Corporate Respondent and the Individual Respondent, 

individually, collectively, or in any combination. 

9.  “User” means an individual consumer from whom Covered Business has obtained 

information for the purpose of providing access to a Respondent’s products and services. 

Provisions 

I. 

Prohibition Against Misrepresentations 

IT IS ORDERED that Corporate Respondent and Corporate Respondent’s officers, 
agents, employees, and attorneys, and all other persons in active concert or participation with any 
of them, who receive actual notice of this Order, whether acting directly or indirectly, in 
connection with any product or service, must not misrepresent in any manner, expressly or by 
implication: 

A.  The extent to which Corporate Respondent collects, uses, discloses, maintains, Deletes, 

or permits or denies access to any Covered Information;  

B.  The extent to which Corporate Respondent otherwise protects the privacy, security, 

availability, confidentiality, or integrity of any Covered Information; or 

C.  The extent of any Covered Incident or unauthorized disclosure, misuse, loss, theft, 

alteration, destruction, or other compromise of Covered Information. 

II.  Mandated Deletion and Data Minimization 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Corporate Respondent must: 

A.  Within 60 days after the issuance date of this Order, Delete or destroy all Covered 

Information that is not being used or retained in connection with providing products or 
services to Corporate Respondent’s customers, and provide a written statement to the 
Commission, pursuant to the Provision entitled Compliance Report and Notices, 
confirming that all such data has been Deleted or destroyed specifically enumerating 
which types of information were Deleted or destroyed; and 

Page 3 of 17 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B.  Refrain from collecting or maintaining any Covered Information not necessary for the 
specific purpose(s) provided in the retention schedule required under Provision III 
entitled Data Retention Limits. 

Provided, however, that any data that Corporate Respondent is required to Delete or destroy 
pursuant to this Provision may be retained if required by law, regulation, court order, contractual 
obligations requiring Corporate Respondent to maintain records on behalf of retailers to 
document the retailers’ compliance with state or local liquor regulations, or legal process, 
including as required by rules applicable to the safeguarding of evidence in pending litigation.  

III.  Data Retention Limits 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Corporate Respondent, in connection with the 

collection, maintenance, use, or disclosure of, or provision of access to, Covered Information, 
must: 

A.  Within 60 days of issuance of this Order, document, adhere to, and make publicly 

available on its website(s) or app(s), a retention schedule for Covered Information, setting 
forth:  (1) the purpose or purposes for which each type of Covered Information is 
collected; (2) the specific business needs for retaining each type of Covered Information; 
and (3) a set timeframe for Deletion of each type of Covered Information that precludes 
indefinite retention of any Covered Information; and  

B.  Within 60 days after the issuance date of this Order, Corporate Respondent shall provide 
a written statement to the Commission, pursuant to the Provision entitled Compliance 
Report and Notices, describing the retention schedule for Covered Information made 
publicly available on its website(s) or app(s); and 

C.  Prior to collecting any new type of information related to consumers that was not being 

collected as of the issuance date of this Order, and is not described in retention schedules 
published in accordance with sub-Provision A of this Provision entitled Data Retention 
Limits, Corporate Respondent must update its retention schedule setting forth:  (1) the 
purpose or purposes for which the new information is collected; (2) the specific business 
needs for retaining the new information; and (3) a set timeframe for Deletion of the new 
information that precludes indefinite retention.    

IV.  Mandated Information Security Program for Covered Businesses   

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Corporate Respondent and any business that 
Corporate Respondent controls, directly or indirectly, in connection with the collection, 
maintenance, use, or disclosure of, or provision of access to, Covered Information, must each, 
within 60 days of the effective date of this Order, establish and implement, and thereafter 
maintain, a comprehensive information security program (“Information Security Program”) that 
protects the security, confidentiality, and integrity of such Covered Information.  To satisfy this 
requirement, each Covered Business must, at a minimum: 

Page 4 of 17 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  Document in writing the content, implementation, and maintenance of the Information 

Security Program; 

B.  Provide the written Information Security Program and any evaluations thereof or updates 
thereto to any Covered Business’ board of directors or governing body or, if no such 
board or equivalent governing body exists, to a senior officer of the Covered Business 
responsible for the business’ Information Security Program at least once every 12 months 
and promptly (not to exceed 30 days) after a Covered Incident; 

C.  Designate a qualified employee or employees to coordinate and be responsible for the 

Information Security Program; 

D.  Assess and document, at least once every 12 months and promptly (not to exceed 30 

days) following a Covered Incident, internal and external risks to the security, 
confidentiality, or integrity of Covered Information that could result in the (1) 
unauthorized collection, maintenance, alteration, use, disclosure of, or provision of access 
to, Covered Information; or the (2) misuse, loss, theft, alteration, destruction, or other 
compromise of such information; 

E.  Design, implement, maintain, and document safeguards that control for the internal and 
external risks Covered Businesses identify to the security, confidentiality, or integrity of 
Covered Information identified in response to sub-Provision D of the Provision entitled 
Mandated Information Security Program for Covered Businesses.  Each safeguard must 
be based on the volume and sensitivity of the Covered Information that is at risk, and the 
likelihood that the risk could be realized and result in the (1) unauthorized collection, 
maintenance, use, disclosure of, or provision of access to, Covered Information; or the (2) 
misuse, loss, theft, alteration, destruction, or other compromise of such information.  
Such safeguards must also include: 

1.  A written information security policy and accompanying written standards and 
procedures that describe, at a minimum:  (a) how each Covered Business 
implements each of the safeguards identified in this sub-Provision; and (b) how 
each Covered Business assesses and enforces compliance with these safeguards 
and any other controls it identifies in the policy and accompanying standards and 
procedures; 

2.  Standards, procedures, and policy provisions mandating security education that 
address internal or external risks each Covered Business identifies under sub-
Provision D of this Provision, and that includes, at a minimum:  (a) training for 
each Covered Business’ employees about each Covered Business’ security policy, 
standards, and procedures, including the requirements of this Order and the 
process for submitting complaints and concerns, to be conducted when an 
employee begins employment or takes on a new role, and on at least an annual 
basis thereafter; and (b) training in secure software development principles, 
including secure engineering and defensive programming concepts, for 
developers, engineers, system administrators, and other employees that design, 

Page 5 of 17 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
implement, and operate a Covered Business’ products or services or that are 
otherwise responsible for the security of Covered Information; 

3.  Technical measures, standards, procedures, and policy provisions to prevent the 
storage of unsecured access keys or other unsecured credentials on a Covered 
Business’ network or in any cloud-based services; 

4.  Policy provisions and, to the extent possible, technical measures requiring 

employees, contractors, or third parties to secure any accounts with access to a 
Covered Business’ information technology infrastructure by:  (a) using strong, 
unique passwords; and (b) using multi-factor authentication whenever available; 

5.  Requiring multi-factor authentication methods for all employees, contractors, and 
affiliates in order to access any assets (including databases) storing Covered 
Information.  Such multi-factor authentication methods for all employees, 
contractors, and affiliates shall not include telephone or SMS-based authentication 
methods and must be resistant to phishing attacks.  A Covered Business may use 
widely-adopted industry authentication options that provide at least equivalent 
security as the multi-factor authentication options required by this sub-provision, 
if approved in writing by the Commission; 

6.  Requiring multi-factor authentication methods be provided as an option for 

consumers.  Any information collected from consumers at the time they select to 
use multi-factor authentication may only be used for authentication purposes and 
no other purpose; 

7.  Technical measures, standards, procedures, and policy provisions to:  (a) log and 
monitor access to repositories of Covered Information in the control of a Covered 
Business; (b) limit access to Covered Information by, at a minimum, limiting 
employee and service provider access to what is needed to perform that 
employee’s or service provider’s job function; (c) grant and audit varying levels 
of access based on an employee’s need to know; and (d) periodically monitor and 
terminate employee and contractor accounts following inappropriate usage or 
termination of employment; 

8.  Technical measures, standards, procedures, and policy provisions to control data 
access for all assets (including databases) containing Covered Information or 
resources containing proprietary (i.e., non-open source) source code repositories, 
including, at a minimum:  (a) restrictions of inbound connections to those 
originating from approved IP addresses; (b) requiring connections to be 
authenticated and encrypted; and (c) periodic audits of account permissions; 

9.  Technical measures, standards, procedures, and policy provisions to:  (a) monitor 
and log transfers or exfiltration of Covered Information outside each Covered 
Business’ network boundaries; (b) monitor and log data security events and other 
anomalous activity; and (c) verify the effectiveness of monitoring and logging; 

Page 6 of 17 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10. Technical measures to safeguard against unauthorized access, including:  (a) an 
intrusion prevention or detection system; (b) file integrity monitoring tools; 
(c) data loss prevention tools; (d) properly configured firewalls; and (e) properly 
configured physical or logical segmentation of networks, systems, and databases;  

11. Technical measures, standards, procedures, and policy provisions to assess the 
risk posed by source code to Covered Information stored on any Covered 
Business’ network or other assets, including, at least once every 12 months and 
promptly (not to exceed 30 days) after a Covered Incident involving a 
vulnerability related to Respondent’s source code:  (a) software code review; and 
(b) penetration testing of each Covered Business’ software; and 

12. Technical measures, procedures, and policy provisions to systematically inventory 
Covered Information in each Covered Business’ control and Delete Covered 
Information that is no longer necessary; 

F.  Assess, at least once every 12 months and promptly (not to exceed 30 days) following a 
Covered Incident, the sufficiency of any safeguards in place to address the risks to the 
security, confidentiality, or integrity of Covered Information, and modify the Information 
Security Program based on the results; 

G.  Test and monitor the effectiveness of the safeguards in place at least once every 12 

months and promptly (not to exceed 30 days) following a Covered Incident, and modify 
the Information Security Program based on the results.  Such testing and monitoring must 
include:  (1) vulnerability testing of each Covered Business’ network and applications 
once every 4 months and promptly (not to exceed 30 days) after a Covered Incident; and 
(2) penetration testing of each Covered Business’ network(s) and applications at least 
once every 12 months and promptly (not to exceed 30 days) after a Covered Incident; 

H.  Select and retain service providers capable of safeguarding Covered Information they 

access through or receive from each Covered Business, and contractually require service 
providers to implement and maintain safeguards sufficient to address the internal and 
external risks to the security, confidentiality, or integrity of Covered Information; and 

I.  Evaluate and adjust the Information Security Program in light of any changes to a 

Covered Business’ operations or business arrangements, a Covered Incident, new or more 
efficient technological or operational methods to control for the risks identified in sub-
Provision D of the Provision entitled Mandated Information Security Program for 
Covered Businesses, or any other circumstances that a Covered Business or its officers, 
agents, or employees know or have reason to know may have an impact on the 
effectiveness of the Information Security Program or any of its individual safeguards.  At 
a minimum, each Covered Business must evaluate the Information Security Program at 
least once every 12 months and modify the Information Security Program based on the 
results. 

Page 7 of 17 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
V. 

Third Party Information Security Assessments for Covered Businesses 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, in connection with compliance with the Provision 

entitled Mandated Information Security Program for Covered Businesses, Corporate Respondent 
must obtain initial and biennial assessments (“Assessments”): 

A.  The Assessments must be obtained from a qualified, objective, independent third-party 

professional (“Assessor”), who:  (1) uses procedures and standards generally accepted in 
the profession; (2) conducts an independent review of the Information Security Program; 
and (3) retains all documents relevant to each Assessment for 5 years after completion of 
such Assessment and will provide such documents to the Commission within 10 days of 
receipt of a written request from a representative of the Commission.  No documents may 
be withheld by the Assessor on the basis of a claim of confidentiality, proprietary or trade 
secrets, work product protection, attorney-client privilege, statutory exemption, or any 
similar claim. 

B.  For each Assessment, Corporate Respondent must provide the Associate Director for 

Enforcement for the Bureau of Consumer Protection at the Federal Trade Commission 
with the name, affiliation, and qualifications of the proposed Assessor, whom the 
Associate Director shall have the authority to approve in their sole discretion.   

C.  The reporting period for the Assessments must cover:  (1) the first 180 days after the 

Mandated Information Security Program for Covered Businesses required by Provision 
IV of this Order has been put in place for the initial Assessment; and (2) each two-year 
period thereafter for 20 years after issuance of the Order for the biennial Assessments. 

D.  Each Assessment must, for the entire assessment period:   

1.  Determine whether Corporate Respondent has implemented and maintained the 
Information Security Program required by the Provision entitled Mandated 
Information Security Program for Covered Businesses;  

2.  Assess the effectiveness of Corporate Respondent’s implementation and 
maintenance of sub-Provisions A-I of the Provision entitled Mandated 
Information Security Program for Covered Businesses;  

3.  Identify any gaps or weaknesses in, or instances of material noncompliance with, 

the Information Security Program;  

4.  Address the status of gaps or weaknesses in, or instances of material non-

compliance with, the Information Security Program that were identified in any 
prior Assessment required by this Order; and 

5.  Identify specific evidence (including, but not limited to, documents reviewed, 
sampling and testing performed, and interviews conducted) examined to make 
such determinations, assessments, and identifications, and explain why the 
evidence that the Assessor examined is (a) appropriate for assessing an enterprise 

Page 8 of 17 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of the business’s size, complexity, and risk profile; and (b) sufficient to justify the 
Assessor’s findings.  No finding of any Assessment shall rely primarily on 
assertions or attestations by Corporate Respondent’s management.  The 
Assessment must be signed by the Assessor, state that the Assessor conducted an 
independent review of the Information Security Program and did not rely 
primarily on assertions or attestations by Corporate Respondent’s management, 
and state the number of hours that each member of the assessment team worked 
on the Assessment.  To the extent Corporate Respondent revises, updates, or adds 
one or more safeguards required under the Provision entitled Mandated 
Information Security Program for Covered Businesses in the middle of an 
Assessment period, the Assessment must assess the effectiveness of the revised, 
updated, or added safeguard(s) for the time period in which it was in effect, and 
provide a separate statement detailing the basis for each revised, updated, or 
additional safeguard. 

E.  Each Assessment must be completed within 60 days after the end of the reporting period 

to which the Assessment applies.  Unless otherwise directed by a Commission 
representative in writing, Corporate Respondent must submit an unredacted copy of the 
initial Assessment and a proposed redacted copy suitable for public disclosure of the 
initial Assessment to the Commission within 10 days after the Assessment has been 
completed via email to DEbrief@ftc.gov or by overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal 
Service) to:  Associate Director for Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, 
Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC  20580. 
The subject line must begin, “In re Drizly, LLC and James Cory Rellas, FTC File No. 
2023185.”  Corporate Respondent must retain an unredacted copy of each subsequent 
biennial Assessment as well as a proposed redacted copy of each subsequent biennial 
Assessment suitable for public disclosure until the Order is terminated and must provide 
each such Assessment to the Associate Director for Enforcement within ten (10) days of 
request.  The initial Assessment and any subsequent biennial Assessment provided to the 
Commission must be marked, in the upper right-hand corner of each page, with the words 
“DPIP Assessment” in red lettering. 

VI.  Cooperation with Third-Party Information Security Assessor 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondents, whether acting directly or indirectly, in 

connection with any Assessment required by the Provision entitled Third Party Information 
Security Assessments for Covered Businesses must: 

A.  Provide or otherwise make available to the Assessor all information and material in their 
possession, custody, or control that is relevant to the Assessment for which there is no 
reasonable claim of privilege; 

B.  Provide or otherwise make available to the Assessor information about Corporate 

Respondent’s networks and all of Corporate Respondent’s information technology assets 
so that the Assessor can determine the scope of the Assessment, and visibility to those 
portions of the networks and information technology assets deemed in scope; and 

Page 9 of 17 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C.  Disclose all material facts to the Assessor, and not misrepresent in any manner, expressly 
or by implication, any fact material to the Assessor’s:  (1) determination of whether 
Corporate Respondent has implemented and maintained the Mandated Information 
Security Program for Covered Businesses; (2) assessment of the effectiveness of the 
Corporate Respondent’s implementation and maintenance of sub-Provisions A-I of the 
required Mandated Information Security Program for Covered Businesses; or (3) 
identification of any gaps or weaknesses in, or instances of material noncompliance with, 
the Mandated Information Security Program for Covered Businesses. 

VII.  Mandated Information Security Program for Certain Businesses of the Individual 

Respondent 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, for 10 years after issuance of this Order, Individual 

Respondent, for any Relevant Business that he is:  1) majority owner; or 2) employed or 
functions as a Chief Executive Officer or other senior officer with direct or indirect responsibility 
for information security, must within 180 days ensure that the business has established and 
implemented, and thereafter maintains, a comprehensive information security program 
(“Business ISP”) that protects the security, confidentiality, and integrity of Covered 
Information.  To satisfy this requirement, Individual Respondent must ensure that each Relevant 
Business, at a minimum: 

A.  Documents in writing the content, implementation, and maintenance of the Business ISP; 

B.  Provides the written Business ISP and any evaluations thereof or updates thereto to any 

Relevant Business’s board of directors or governing body or, if no such board or 
equivalent governing body exists, to a senior officer of the Relevant Business responsible 
for the Business ISP at least once every 12 months; 

C.  Designates a qualified employee or employees to coordinate and be responsible for the 

Business ISP; 

D.  Assesses and documents, at least once every 12 months, internal and external risks to the 
security, confidentiality, or integrity of Covered Information that could result in the (1) 
unauthorized collection, maintenance, alteration, use, disclosure of, or provision of access 
to, Covered Information; or the (2) misuse, loss, theft, destruction, or other compromise 
of such information; 

E.  Designs, implements, maintains, and documents safeguards that control for the internal 
and external risks to the security, confidentiality, or integrity of Covered Information 
identified in response to sub-Provision D of this provision entitled Mandated Information 
Security Program for Certain Businesses of the Individual Respondent.  Each safeguard 
must be based on the volume and sensitivity of the Covered Information that is at risk, 
and the likelihood that the risk could be realized and result in the (1) unauthorized 
collection, maintenance, use, disclosure of, or provision of access to, Covered 
Information; or the (2) misuse, loss, theft, alteration, destruction, or other compromise of 
such information; 

Page 10 of 17 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
F.  Assesses, at least once every 12 months, the sufficiency of any safeguards in place to 

address the risks to the security, confidentiality, or integrity of Covered Information, and 
modify the Business ISP based on the results; 

G.  Tests and monitors the effectiveness of the safeguards in place at least once every 12 

months, and modifies the Business ISP based on the results.  Such testing and monitoring 
must include:  (1) vulnerability testing of the Relevant Business’s network and 
applications once every 4 months; and (2) penetration testing of the Relevant Business’s 
network(s) and applications at least once every 12 months; 

H.  Selects and retains service providers capable of safeguarding Covered Information they 
access through or receive from the Relevant Business, and contractually require service 
providers to implement and maintain safeguards sufficient to address the internal and 
external risks to the security, confidentiality, or integrity of Covered Information; and 

I.  Evaluates and adjusts the Business ISP in light of any changes to the Relevant Business’s 
operations or business arrangements, new or more efficient technological or operational 
methods to control for the risks identified in sub-Provision D of this provision entitled 
Mandated Information Security Program for Certain Businesses of the Individual 
Respondent, or any other circumstances that Individual Respondent or the Relevant 
Business know or have reason to know may have an impact on the effectiveness of the 
Business ISP or any of its individual safeguards.  At a minimum, each Relevant Business 
must evaluate the Business ISP at least once every 12 months and modify the Business 
ISP based on the results. 

VIII.  Annual Certification 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Corporate Respondent must: 

A.  One year after the issuance date of this Order, and each year thereafter, provide the 

Commission with a certification from Corporate Respondent’s Chief Executive Officer, 
James Cory Rellas, or if Mr. Rellas no longer serves as Corporate Respondent’s Chief 
Executive Officer, President, or such other officer (regardless of title) that is designated 
in Corporate Respondent’s Bylaws or resolution of the Board of Directors as having the 
duties of the principal executive officer of Corporate Respondent, then a senior corporate 
manager, or, if no such senior corporate manager exists, a senior officer responsible for 
Corporate Respondent’s Information Security Program that:  (1) each Covered Business 
has established, implemented, and maintained the requirements of this Order; (2) each 
Covered Business is not aware of any material noncompliance that has not been (a) 
corrected or (b) disclosed to the Commission; and (3) includes a brief description of all 
Covered Incidents that Corporate Respondent verified or confirmed during the certified 
period.  The certification must be based on the personal knowledge of Mr. Rellas, the 
senior corporate manager, senior officer, or subject matter experts upon whom Mr. 
Rellas, the senior corporate manager, or senior officer reasonably relies in making the 
certification. 

Page 11 of 17 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B.  Unless otherwise directed by a Commission representative in writing, submit all annual 
certifications to the Commission pursuant to this Order via email to DEbrief@ftc.gov or 
by overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal Service) to:  Associate Director for 
Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 600 
Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC  20580.  The subject line must begin, “In re 
Drizly, LLC and James Cory Rellas, FTC File No. 2023185.” 

IX.  Covered Incident Reports 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, within 10 days of any notification to a United States 
federal, state, or local entity of a Covered Incident, each Covered Business must submit a report 
to the Commission.  The report must include, to the extent possible: 

A.  The date, estimated date, or estimated date range when the Covered Incident occurred; 

B.  A description of the facts relating to the Covered Incident, including the causes and scope 

of the Covered Incident, if known; 

C.  A description of each type of information that was affected by the Covered Incident; 

D.  The number of consumers whose information was affected by the Covered Incident; 

E.  The acts that each Covered Business has taken to date to remediate the Covered Incident 
and protect Covered Information from further exposure or access, and protect affected 
individuals from identity theft or other harm that may result from the Covered Incident; 
and 

F.  A representative copy of each materially different notice sent by each Covered Business 
to consumers or to any U.S. federal, state, or local government entity regarding the 
Covered Incident. 

Unless otherwise directed by a Commission representative in writing, all Covered 
Incident reports to the Commission pursuant to this Order must be emailed to DEbrief@ftc.gov 
or sent by overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal Service) to:  Associate Director for 
Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania 
Avenue NW, Washington, DC  20580.  The subject line must begin, “In re Drizly, LLC and 
James Cory Rellas, FTC File No. 2023185.” 

X. 

Acknowledgments of the Order 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondents obtain acknowledgments of receipt of 

this Order: 

A.  Each Respondent, within 10 days after the effective date of this Order, must submit to the 
Commission an acknowledgment of receipt of this Order sworn under penalty of perjury. 

Page 12 of 17 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B.  For 10 years after the issuance date of this Order, Individual Respondent for any business 

that such Respondent, individually or collectively with any other Respondent is the 
majority owner or controls, directly or indirectly, and Corporate Respondent must deliver 
a copy of this Order to:  (1) all principals, officers, directors, and LLC managers and 
members; (2) all employees, agents, and representatives with managerial responsibilities 
for a Covered Business’ data security, collection of consumer information, and decision-
making about the use of consumer information; (3) the employee(s) having primary 
responsibility for a Relevant Business’ data security, collection of consumer information, 
and decision-making about the use of consumer information; and (4) any business entity 
resulting from any change in structure as set forth in the Provision titled Compliance 
Report and Notices.  Delivery must occur within 10 days after the effective date of this 
Order for current personnel.  For all others, delivery must occur before they assume their 
responsibilities. 

C.  From each individual or entity to which Respondents delivered a copy of this Order, 

Respondents must obtain, within 30 days, a signed and dated acknowledgment of receipt 
of this Order. 

XI.  Compliance Report and Notices 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondents make timely submissions to the 

Commission: 

A.  One year after the issuance date of this Order, each Respondent must submit a 

compliance report, sworn under penalty of perjury, in which: 

1.  Each Respondent must:  (a) identify the primary physical, postal, and email 
address and telephone number, as designated points of contact, which 
representatives of the Commission, may use to communicate with Respondent; 
(b) identify all of that Respondent’s businesses by all of their names, telephone 
numbers, and physical, postal, email, and Internet addresses; (c) describe the 
activities of each business, including the goods and services offered, the means of 
advertising, marketing, and sales, and the involvement of any other Respondent 
(which Individual Respondent must describe if they know or should know due to 
their own involvement); (d) describe in detail whether and how that Respondent is 
in compliance with each Provision of this Order, including a discussion of all of 
the changes the Respondent made to comply with the Order; and (e) provide a 
copy of each Acknowledgment of the Order obtained pursuant to this Order, 
unless previously submitted to the Commission. 

2.  Additionally, Individual Respondent must:  (a) identify all their telephone 

numbers and all their physical, postal, email and Internet addresses, including all 
residences; (b) identify all their business activities, including any business for 
which such Respondent performs services whether as an employee or otherwise 
and any entity in which such Respondent has any ownership interest; (c) describe 
in detail such Respondent’s involvement in each such business activity, including 

Page 13 of 17 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
title, role, responsibilities, participation, authority, control, and any ownership; 
and (d) explain whether or not any business identified in sub-part (b) is a Relevant 
Business. 

B.  Each Respondent must submit a compliance notice, sworn under penalty of perjury, 

within 14 days of any change in the following: 

1.  Each Respondent must submit notice of any change in:  (a) any designated point 

of contact; or (b) the structure of Corporate Respondent or any entity that 
Respondent has any ownership interest in or controls directly or indirectly that 
may affect compliance obligations arising under this Order, including:  creation, 
merger, sale, or dissolution of the entity or any subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that 
engages in any acts or practices subject to this Order. 

2.  Additionally, Individual Respondent must submit notice of any change in:  (a) 

name, including alias or fictitious name, or residence address; or (b) title or role in 
any business activity, including (i) any business for which Respondent performs 
services whether as an employee or otherwise and (ii) any entity in which 
Respondent has any ownership interest and over which Respondent has direct or 
indirect control.  For each such business, also identify its name, physical address, 
any Internet address, and whether or not it is a Relevant Business. 

C.  Each Respondent must submit notice of the filing of any bankruptcy petition, insolvency 
proceeding, or similar proceeding by or against such Respondent within 14 days of its 
filing. 

D.  Any submission to the Commission required by this Order to be sworn under penalty of 

perjury must be true and accurate and comply with 28 U.S.C. § 1746, such as by 
concluding:  “I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the United States of 
America that the foregoing is true and correct.  Executed on:  _____” and supplying the 
date, signatory’s full name, title (if applicable), and signature. 

E.  Unless otherwise directed by a Commission representative in writing, all submissions to 
the Commission pursuant to this Order must be emailed to DEbrief@ftc.gov or sent by 
overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal Service) to:  Associate Director for Enforcement, 
Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue 
NW, Washington, DC  20580.  The subject line must begin:  In re Drizly, LLC and James 
Cory Rellas, FTC File No. 2023185. 

XII.  Recordkeeping 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondents must create certain records for 20 years 

after the issuance date of the Order, and retain each such record for 5 years, unless otherwise 
specified below.  Specifically, Corporate Respondent and Individual Respondent for any 
business that such Respondent, individually or collectively with any other Respondents, is a 

Page 14 of 17 

 
 
 
 
 
majority owner or controls directly or indirectly must create and retain the following records: 

A.  Accounting records showing the revenues from all goods or services sold, the costs 

incurred in generating those revenues, and resulting net profit or loss; 

B.  Personnel records showing, for each person providing services in relation to any aspect of 

the Order, whether as an employee or otherwise, that person’s:  name, addresses, 
telephone numbers, job title or position, dates of service, and (if applicable) the reason 
for termination;  

C.  Copies or records of all consumer complaints related to information security, privacy, or 
identity theft whether received directly or indirectly by Corporate Respondent, such as 
through a third party, and any response; 

D.  A copy of each unique advertisement or other marketing material of Corporate 

Respondent containing a representation subject to this Order; 

E.  A copy of each widely disseminated and materially different representation by Corporate 

Respondent that describes the extent to which Corporate Respondent maintains or 
protects the privacy, security, availability, confidentiality, or integrity of any Covered 
Information, including any representation concerning a change in any website or other 
service controlled by Corporate Respondent that relates to privacy, security, availability, 
confidentiality, or integrity of Covered Information; 

F.  For 5 years after the date of preparation of each Assessment required by this Order, all 

materials and evidence that the Assessor considered, reviewed, relied upon or examined 
to prepare the Assessment, whether prepared by or on behalf of Respondents, including 
all plans, reports, studies, reviews, audits, audit trails, policies, training materials, and 
assessments, and any other materials concerning Respondents’ compliance with related 
Provisions of this Order, for the compliance period covered by such Assessment; 

G.  For 5 years from the date received, copies of all subpoenas and other communications 
with law enforcement, if such communications relate to Respondents’ compliance with 
this Order; 

H.  For 5 years from the date created or received, all records, whether prepared by or on 

behalf of Respondents, that tend to show any lack of compliance by Respondents with 
this Order; and 

I.  All records necessary to demonstrate full compliance with each Provision of this Order, 

including all submissions to the Commission. 

XIII.  Compliance Monitoring 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, for the purpose of monitoring Respondents’ 

Page 15 of 17 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
compliance with this Order: 

A.  Within 10 days of receipt of a written request from a representative of the Commission, 

Respondents must:  submit additional compliance reports or other requested information, 
which must be sworn under penalty of perjury, and produce records for inspection and 
copying. 

B.  For matters concerning this Order, representatives of the Commission are authorized to 

communicate directly with Respondents.  Respondents must permit representatives of the 
Commission to interview anyone affiliated with Respondents who has agreed to such an 
interview.  The interviewee may have counsel present. 

C.  The Commission may use all other lawful means, including posing through its 

representatives as consumers, suppliers, or other individuals or entities, to Respondents or 
any individual or entity affiliated with Respondents, without the necessity of 
identification or prior notice.  Nothing in this Order limits the Commission’s lawful use 
of compulsory process, pursuant to Sections 9 and 20 of the FTC Act, 15 U.S.C. §§ 49, 
57b-1. 

XIV.  Order Effective Dates 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that this Order is final and effective upon the date of its 

publication on the Commission’s website (ftc.gov) as a final order.  This Order will terminate 20 
years from the date of its issuance, (which date may be stated at the end of this Order, near the 
Commission’s seal), or 20 years from the most recent date that the United States or the 
Commission files a complaint (with or without an accompanying settlement) in federal court 
alleging any violation of this Order, whichever comes later; provided, however, that the filing of 
such a complaint will not affect the duration of: 

A.  Any Provision in this Order that terminates in less than 20 years; 

B.  This Order’s application to any Respondent that is not named as a defendant in such 

complaint; and 

C.  This Order if such complaint is filed after the Order has terminated pursuant to this 

Provision. 

Page 16 of 17 

 
 
 
Provided, further, that if such complaint is dismissed or a federal court rules that the Respondents did not 
violate any provision of the Order, and the dismissal or ruling is either not appealed or upheld on appeal, 
then the Order will terminate according to this Provision as though the complaint had never been filed, 
except that the Order will not terminate between the date such complaint is filed and the later of the 
deadline for appealing such dismissal or ruling and the date such dismissal or ruling is upheld on appeal. 

By the Commission. 

SEAL: 
ISSUED: January 9, 2023 

April J. Tabor 
Secretary 

Page 17 of 17 

 
 
 
 
 
