UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION 

1923170 

COMMISSIONERS: 

Lina M. Khan, Chair 
Rebecca Kelly Slaughter 
Alvaro M. Bedoya 

In the Matter of 

DECISION AND ORDER 

1HEALTH.IO INC., a corporation, also d/b/a 
VITAGENE, INC. 

DOCKET NO. C-4798

DECISION 

The Federal Trade Commission (“Commission”) initiated an investigation of certain acts and 

practices of the Respondent named in the caption.  The Commission’s Bureau of Consumer 
Protection (“BCP”) prepared and furnished to Respondent a draft Complaint.  BCP proposed to 
present the draft Complaint to the Commission for its consideration.  If issued by the 
Commission, the draft Complaint would charge the Respondent with violations of the Federal 
Trade Commission Act. 

Respondent and BCP thereafter executed an Agreement Containing Consent Order (“Consent 

Agreement”).  The Consent Agreement includes: (1) statements by Respondent that it neither 
admits nor denies any of the allegations in the Complaint, except as specifically stated in this 
Decision and Order, and that only for purposes of this action, it admits the facts necessary to 
establish jurisdiction; and (2) waivers and other provisions as required by the Commission’s 
Rules. 

The Commission considered the matter and determined that it had reason to believe that 
Respondent has violated the Federal Trade Commission Act, and that a Complaint should issue 
stating its charges in that respect.  The Commission accepted the executed Consent Agreement 
and placed it on the public record for a period of thirty (30) days for the receipt and consideration 
of public comments.  The Commission duly considered any comments received from interested 
persons pursuant to Section 2.34 of its Rules, 16 C.F.R. § 2.34.  Now, in further conformity with 
the procedure prescribed in Rule 2.34, the Commission issues its Complaint, makes the 
following Findings, and issues the following Order: 

1 

 
 
 
Findings 

1.  The Respondent is 1Health.io Inc., also d/b/a Vitagene, Inc. and Vitagene (“Vitagene”), 
a Delaware corporation with its principal office or place of business at 201 Spear Street, 
Suite 1100, San Francisco, California 94105.  Respondent changed its name from 
Vitagene, Inc. to 1Health.io Inc. in October 2020. 

2.  The Commission has jurisdiction over the subject matter of this proceeding and over the 

Respondent, and the proceeding is in the public interest. 

ORDER 

Definitions 

For purposes of this Order, the following definitions apply: 

A.  “Affirmative Express Consent” means any freely given, specific, informed, and 
unambiguous indication of an individual consumer’s wishes demonstrating 
agreement by the individual, such as by a clear affirmative action, following a Clear 
and Conspicuous disclosure to the individual of: (1) each category of Personal 
Information that Respondent will disclose to third parties; (2) the specific 
purpose(s) for the disclosures of each category of Personal Information; (3) each 
category of third party to which such disclosures will be made; (4) a simple, easily-
located means for the consumer to withdraw consent; (5) any limitations on the 
consumer’s ability to withdraw consent; and (6) all other information material to the 
provision of consent.  The Clear and Conspicuous disclosure must be separate from 
any “privacy policy,” “terms of service,” “terms of use,” “consent for research,” or 
other similar document. 

The following do not constitute Affirmative Express Consent: 

1. 

2. 

Inferring consent from the hovering over, muting, pausing, or closing of a 
given piece of content by the consumer; or 

Obtaining consent through a user interface that has the substantial effect of 
subverting or impairing user autonomy, decision-making, or choice. 

B.  “Clear and Conspicuous” means that a required disclosure is difficult to miss (i.e., 

easily noticeable) and easily understandable by ordinary consumers, including in all 
of the following ways: 

1.  In any communication that is solely visual or solely audible, the disclosure must 

be made through the same means through which the communication is 
presented.  In any communication made through both visual and audible means, 
such as a television advertisement, the disclosure must be presented 
simultaneously in both the visual and audible portions of the communication 
even if the representation requiring the disclosure (“triggering representation”) 

2 

 
 
is made through only one means. 

2.  A visual disclosure, by its size, contrast, location, the length of time it appears, 
and other characteristics, must stand out from any accompanying text or other 
visual elements so that it is easily noticed, read, and understood. 

3.  An audible disclosure, including by telephone or streaming video, must be 

delivered in a volume, speed, and cadence sufficient for ordinary consumers to 
easily hear and understand it. 

4.  In any communication using an interactive electronic medium, such as the 

Internet or software, the disclosure must be unavoidable. 

5.  The disclosure must use diction and syntax understandable to ordinary 
consumers and must appear in each language in which the triggering 
representation appears. 

6.  The disclosure must comply with these requirements in each medium through 

which it is received, including all electronic devices and face-to-face 
communications. 

7.  The disclosure must not be contradicted or mitigated by, or inconsistent with, 

anything else in the communication. 

8.  When the representation or sales practice targets a specific audience, such as 
children, the elderly, or the terminally ill, “ordinary consumers” includes 
reasonable members of that group. 

C.  “Covered Customer” means any customer identified by Respondent as having had 

potentially exposed as of July 1, 2019, his or her Health Information that 
Respondent stored in the Amazon Web Services Simple Storage Service Datastore. 

D.  “Covered Incident” means any incident: (1) that results in Respondent notifying, 
pursuant to a statutory or regulatory requirement, any U.S. federal, state, or local 
government entity that information of or about an individual consumer was, or is 
reasonably believed to have been, accessed, acquired, or publicly exposed without 
authorization; or (2) in which Health Information of or about an individual consumer 
was, or is reasonably believed to have been, accessed, acquired, or publicly exposed 
without authorization. 

E.  “Covered Service Provider” means a person or entity that (i) uses or receives Health 
Information collected by or on behalf of Respondent for and at the direction of 
Respondent and no other individual or entity; (ii) does not disclose the Health 
Information, or any individually identifiable information derived from it, to an 
individual or entity other than Respondent; and (iii) does not use the Health 
Information for any purpose other than performing the services specified in the 
Covered Service Provider’s contract with Respondent.  Covered Service Provider 

3 

 
 
includes any subcontractor to such Covered Service Provider bound by contract to 
data processing terms no less restrictive than the terms to which the Covered 
Service Provider is bound. 

F.  “Health Information” means individually identifiable information relating to the 
health or genetics of an individual, including information: (1) concerning the 
propensity of that individual to develop a health condition; (2) concerning an analysis 
of the individual’s DNA, RNA, chromosomes, proteins, or metabolites, in whole or in 
part; or (3) relating to the past, present, or future physical or mental health or 
conditions of an individual or the provision of health care to an individual. 

G.  “Personal Information” means information from or about an individual consumer, 

including: (1) a first and last name; (2) a physical address; (3) an email address or other 
online contact information, such as a user identifier or a screen name; (4) a telephone 
number; (5) a financial account number; (6) credit or debit card information; (7) a 
persistent identifier, such as a customer number held in a “cookie,” a static Internet 
Protocol (“IP”) address, a mobile device ID, or processor serial number; or (8) Health 
Information. 

H.  “Respondent” means 1Health.io Inc., also d/b/a Vitagene, Inc. and Vitagene, a 

corporation, and its successors and assigns. 

I.  “Third Party” means any individual or entity other than: (1) a payment processor, 
laboratory, insurance company, insurance verification provider, hospital, or 
healthcare provider that Respondent has contractually obligated to limit the use and 
retention of Health Information to that which is directed by the individual who is 
identifiable by the Health Information; (2) an individual or entity to which 
Respondent discloses Health Information consistent with the Health Information 
Portability and Accountability Act (“HIPAA”) of 1996, Pub. L. 104-191, 110 Stat. 
1936, to the extent that HIPAA applies to the Health Information; (3) a Covered 
Service Provider; (4) an individual or entity to which Respondent discloses Health 
Information at the written direction of a customer who has obtained consent for that 
disclosure from the individual who is identifiable by the Health Information; or 
(5) an entity that purchases assets that include Health Information collected by 
Respondent, provided, however, that Health Information is not sold to the 
purchasing entity as a stand-alone asset, Respondent does not sell any Health 
Information to more than one purchasing entity, and the purchasing entity agrees by 
contract with the selling entity to be bound by: (a) Respondent’s privacy policy in 
effect when such Health Information was collected and agrees to obtain Affirmative 
Express Consent of the individual who is identifiable by the Health Information 
before applying to the Health Information any policies or practices that are material 
changes from such privacy policy; and (b) the requirements set forth in Provision II 
of this Order, including the exclusions set forth within this definition. 

4 

 
 
 
Provisions 

I.  Prohibition against Misrepresentations 

IT IS ORDERED that Respondent; Respondent’s officers, agents, and employees; and all 
other persons in active concert or participation with any of them, who receive actual notice of this 
Order, whether acting directly or indirectly, in connection with any product or service, must not 
misrepresent in any manner, expressly or by implication: 

A.  The extent to which Respondent meets or exceeds industry-standard security or privacy 

practices; 

B.  The extent to which Respondent stores any Health Information with any other element 

of Personal Information; 

C.  The extent to which, or the purposes for which, Respondent collects, uses, discloses, 

maintains, deletes, or destroys a consumer’s: (1) physical DNA sample or (2) Personal 
Information upon request; 

D.  The extent to which Respondent is a member of, adheres to, complies with, is certified 

by, or otherwise participates in any privacy or security program sponsored by a 
government entity or any third party, including any self-regulatory or standard-setting 
organization; 

E.  The extent to which Respondent otherwise protects the privacy, security, availability, 

confidentiality, or integrity of Personal Information; or 

F.  The extent to which Respondent has received approval or authorization for its claims, 

products, or services from any government agency. 

II.  Affirmative Express Consent for Disclosure of  
Health Information to Third Parties 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent; Respondent’s officers, agents, and employees; 

and all other persons in active concert or participation with any of them, who receive actual notice 
of this Order, whether acting directly or indirectly, shall not, unless required by law, disclose to any 
Third Party any Health Information unless Respondent obtains the Affirmative Express Consent of 
the individual who is identifiable by the Health Information. 

III.  Destruction of Saliva Samples  

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, on or before thirty (30) days after the issuance of this 

Order, Respondent and Respondent’s officers, agents, and employees must: 

A.  Instruct any laboratory that collected physical DNA saliva samples pursuant to a contract 

with Respondent to destroy any such sample that the laboratory has retained for more than 
180 days after Respondent accepted the results of the laboratory’s analysis of the sample; 

5 

 
 
and 

B.  Provide a written statement to the Commission, sworn under penalty of perjury, confirming 
that Respondent has given such instructions, and append to that statement true and correct 
copies of any such written instructions. 

IV.  Mandated Information Security Program 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent, and any business that Respondent 

controls directly, or indirectly, in connection with the collection, maintenance, use, or 
disclosure of, or provision of access to, Personal Information, must, within sixty (60) days of 
issuance of this order, establish and implement, and thereafter maintain, a comprehensive 
information security program (“Information Security Program”) that protects the security, 
confidentiality, and integrity of such Personal Information.  To satisfy this requirement, 
Respondent must, at a minimum: 

A.  Document in writing the content, implementation, and maintenance of the Information 

Security Program; 

B.  Provide the written program and any evaluations thereof or updates thereto to 

Respondent’s board of directors or governing body or, if no such board or equivalent 
governing body exists, to a senior officer of Respondent responsible for 
Respondent’s Information Security Program at least once every twelve (12) months 
and promptly (not to exceed thirty (30) days) after a Covered Incident;  

C.  Designate a qualified employee or employees to coordinate and be responsible for the 

Information Security Program; 

D.  Assess and document, at least once every twelve (12) months and promptly (not to 

exceed thirty (30) days) following a Covered Incident, internal and external risks to the 
security, confidentiality, or integrity of Personal Information that could result in the: 
(1) unauthorized collection, maintenance, use, or disclosure of, or provision of access 
to, Personal Information; or the (2) misuse, loss, theft, alteration, destruction, or other 
compromise of Personal Information; 

E.  Design, implement, maintain, and document safeguards that control for the internal and 
external risks Respondent identifies to the security, confidentiality, or integrity of 
Personal Information identified in response to sub-Provision IV.D.  Each safeguard 
must be based on the volume and sensitivity of the Personal Information that is at risk, 
and the likelihood that the risk could be realized and result in the: (1) unauthorized 
collection, maintenance, use, or disclosure of, or provision of access to, Personal 
Information; or the (2) misuse, loss, theft, alteration, destruction, or other compromise 
of Personal Information.  Such safeguards must also include: 

1.  Policies, procedures, and technical measures to systematically inventory Personal 

Information in Respondent’s control; 

6 

2.  Policies, procedures, and technical measures to log and monitor access to 

repositories of Personal Information in Respondent’s control; 

3.  Data access controls for all repositories of Personal Information in Respondent’s 
control, such as: (a) restricting inbound connections to approved IP addresses and 
(b) requiring authentication to access them; and 

4.  Encryption, or at least equivalent protection, of all Health Information in 

Respondent’s control that is reasonably linkable to an individual consumer, 
computer, or device, including in transit and at rest.  To the extent that Respondent 
satisfies this requirement with at least equivalent protection rather than encryption, 
such protection shall be reviewed and approved by the qualified employee or 
employees designated to coordinate and be responsible for the Information Security 
Program; 

F.  Assess, at least once every twelve (12) months and promptly (not to exceed thirty (30) 

days) following a Covered Incident, the sufficiency of any safeguards in place to address 
the internal and external risks to the security, confidentiality, or integrity of Personal 
Information, and modify the Information Security Program based on the results; 

G.  Test and monitor the effectiveness of the safeguards at least once every twelve (12) 

months and promptly (not to exceed thirty (30) days) following a Covered Incident, and 
modify the Information Security Program based on the results.  Such testing and 
monitoring must include vulnerability testing of Respondent’s network(s) once every 
four (4) months and promptly (not to exceed thirty (30) days) after a Covered Incident, 
and penetration testing of Respondent’s network(s) at least once every twelve (12) 
months and promptly (not to exceed thirty (30) days) after a Covered Incident; 

H.  Select and retain service providers capable of safeguarding Personal Information they 

access through or receive from Respondent, and contractually require service providers to 
implement and maintain safeguards sufficient to address the internal and external risks to 
the security, confidentiality, or integrity of Personal Information; and 

I.  Evaluate and adjust the Information Security Program in light of any changes to 

Respondent’s operations or business arrangements, a Covered Incident, new or more 
efficient technological or operational methods to control for the risks identified in 
Provision IV.D of this Order, or any other circumstances that Respondent knows or has 
reason to know may have an impact on the effectiveness of the Information Security 
Program or any of its individual safeguards.  At a minimum, Respondent must evaluate 
the Information Security Program at least once every twelve (12) months and modify the 
Information Security Program based on the results. 

V.  Information Security Assessments by a Third Party 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, in connection with compliance with Provision IV of 
this Order, titled Mandated Information Security Program, Respondent must obtain initial and 
biennial assessments (“Assessments”): 

7 

 
A.  The Assessments must be obtained from a qualified, objective, independent third-party 
professional (“Assessor”), who: (1) uses procedures and standards generally accepted in 
the profession; (2) conducts an independent review of the Information Security Program; 
and (3) retains all documents relevant to each Assessment for five (5) years after 
completion of such Assessment and will provide such documents to the Commission 
within ten (10) days of receipt of a written request from a representative of the 
Commission.  The assessor may not withhold any documents from the Commission on 
the basis of a claim of confidentiality, proprietary or trade secrets, work product 
protection, attorney-client privilege, statutory protection, or any similar claim. 

B.  For each Assessment, Respondent must provide the Associate Director for Enforcement 
for the Bureau of Consumer Protection at the Federal Trade Commission with the name, 
affiliation,  and  qualifications  of  the  proposed  Assessor,  whom  the  Associate  Director 
shall have the authority to approve in her or his sole discretion. 

C.  The reporting period for the Assessments must cover: (1) the first 180 days after the 
issuance date of the Order for the initial Assessment; and (2) each two-year period 
thereafter for twenty (20) years after issuance of the Order for the biennial Assessments. 

D.  Each Assessment must, for the entire assessment period: 

1.  Determine whether Respondent has implemented and maintained the Information 

Security Program required by Provision IV of this Order, titled Mandated 
Information Security Program; 

2.  Assess the effectiveness of Respondent’s implementation and maintenance of 

sub-Provisions IV.A-I; 

3.  Identify any gaps or weaknesses in, or instances of material noncompliance with, 

the Information Security Program; 

4.  Address the status of gaps or weaknesses in, or instances of material non-compliance 
with, the Information Security Program that were identified in any prior Assessment 
required by this Order; and 

5.  Identify specific evidence (including documents reviewed, sampling and testing 
performed, and interviews conducted) examined to make such determinations, 
assessments, and identifications, and explain why the evidence that the Assessor 
examined is: (a) appropriate for assessing an enterprise of Respondent’s size, 
complexity, and risk profile; and (b) sufficient to justify the Assessor’s findings.  No 
finding of any Assessment shall rely primarily on assertions or attestations by 
Respondent’s management.  The Assessment must be signed by the Assessor, state 
that the Assessor conducted an independent review of the Information Security 
Program and did not rely primarily on assertions or attestations by Respondent’s 
management, and state the number of hours that each member of the assessment team 
worked on the Assessment.  To the extent that Respondent revises, updates, or adds 

8 

 
 
one or more safeguards required under Provision IV of this Order during an 
Assessment period, the Assessment must assess the effectiveness of the revised, 
updated, or added safeguard(s) for the time period in which it was in effect, and 
provide a separate statement detailing the basis for each revised, updated, or 
additional safeguard. 

E.  Each Assessment must be completed within sixty (60) days after the end of the reporting 
period to which the Assessment applies.  Unless otherwise directed by a Commission 
representative in writing, Respondent must submit an unredacted copy of the initial 
Assessment and a proposed redacted copy suitable for public disclosure to the 
Commission within ten (10) days after the Assessment has been completed via email to 
DEbrief@ftc.gov or by overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal Service) to Associate 
Director for Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 
600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC  20580.  The subject line must begin, 
“In re 1Health.io Inc., FTC File No. 1923170.”  Respondent must retain an unredacted 
copy of each subsequent biennial Assessment as well as a proposed redacted copy of each 
subsequent biennial Assessment suitable for public disclosure until the order is 
terminated and must provide each such Assessment to the Associate Director for 
Enforcement within ten (10) days of request.  The initial Assessment and any subsequent 
biennial Assessment provided to the Commission must be marked, in the upper right-
hand corner of each page, with the words “DPIP Assessment” in red lettering. 

VI.  Cooperation with Third-Party Information Security Assessor 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent, whether acting directly or indirectly, in 

connection with any Assessment required by Provision V of this Order, titled Information 
Security Assessments by a Third Party, must: 

A.  Provide or otherwise make available to the Assessor all information and material in its 
possession, custody, or control that is relevant to the Assessment for which there is no 
reasonable claim of privilege; 

B.  Provide or otherwise make available to the Assessor information about Respondent’s 
network(s) and all of Respondent’s IT assets so that the Assessor can determine the 
scope of the Assessment, and visibility to those portions of the network(s) and IT assets 
deemed in scope; and 

C.  Disclose all material facts to the Assessor, and not misrepresent in any manner, 

expressly or by implication, any fact material to the Assessor’s: (1) determination of 
whether Respondent has implemented and maintained the Information Security 
Program required by Provision IV of this Order, titled Mandated Information Security 
Program; (2) assessment of the effectiveness of the implementation and maintenance of 
sub-Provisions IV.A-I; or (3) identification of any gaps or weaknesses in, or instances 
of material noncompliance with, the Information Security Program. 

9 

 
 
 
VII.  Annual Certification 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, Respondent must: 

A.  One year after the issuance date of this Order, and each year thereafter, provide the 

Commission with a certification from a senior corporate manager, or, if no such senior 
corporate manager exists, a senior officer of Respondent responsible for Respondent’s 
Information Security Program that: (1) Respondent has established, implemented, and 
maintained the requirements of this Order; (2) Respondent is not aware of any material 
noncompliance that has not been (a) corrected or (b) disclosed to the Commission; and 
(3) includes a brief description of all Covered Incidents during the certified period.  The 
certification must be based on the personal knowledge of the senior corporate manager, 
senior officer, or subject matter experts upon whom the senior corporate manager or 
senior officer reasonably relies in making the certification. 

B.  Unless otherwise directed by a Commission representative in writing, submit all annual 
certifications to the Commission pursuant to this Order via email to DEbrief@ftc.gov or 
by overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal Service) to Associate Director for Enforcement, 
Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue 
NW, Washington, DC 20580.  The subject line must begin: “In re 1Health.io Inc., FTC 
File No. 1923170.” 

VIII.  Covered Incident Reports 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, within: (1) ten (10) days of any notification to a 
United States federal, state, or local government entity of a Covered Incident; or (2) ten (10) 
business days of discovery that individually identifiable Health Information of or about an 
individual consumer was, or is reasonably believed to have been, accessed, acquired, or 
publicly exposed without authorization, Respondent must submit a report to the Commission.  
The report must include, to the extent possible: 

A.  The date, estimated date, or estimated date range when the Covered Incident occurred; 

B.  A description of the facts relating to the Covered Incident, including the causes of the 

Covered Incident, if known; 

C.  A description of each type of information that was affected by the Covered Incident; 

D.  The number of consumers whose information was affected by the Covered Incident; 

E.  The acts that Respondent has taken to date to remediate the Covered Incident and protect 
Personal Information from further exposure or access, and protect affected individuals 
from identity theft or other harm that may result from the Covered Incident; and 

F.  A representative copy of any materially different notice sent by Respondent to consumers 

or to any U.S. federal, state, or local government entity. 

10 

 
 
 
Unless otherwise directed by a Commission representative in writing, all Covered Incident 
reports to the Commission pursuant to this Order must be emailed to DEbrief@ftc.gov or sent by 
overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal Service) to: Associate Director for Enforcement, Bureau 
of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, 
Washington, DC 20580.  The subject line must begin: “In re 1Health.io Inc., FTC File No. 
1923170.” 

IX.  Monetary Relief 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that: 

A.  Respondent must pay to the Commission $75,000. 

B.  Such payment must be made within eight (8) days of the effective date of this Order by 
electronic fund transfer in accordance with instructions provided by a representative of 
the Commission. 

X.  Additional Monetary Provisions 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that: 

A.  Respondent relinquishes dominion and all legal and equitable right, title, and interest in 
all assets transferred pursuant to this Order and may not seek the return of any assets. 

B.  The facts alleged in the Complaint will be taken as true, without further proof, in any 

subsequent civil litigation by or on behalf of the Commission to enforce its rights to any 
payment pursuant to this Order, such as a nondischargeability complaint in any 
bankruptcy case. 

C.  The facts alleged in the Complaint establish all elements necessary to sustain an action by 
or on behalf of the Commission pursuant to Section 523(a)(2)(A) of the Bankruptcy 
Code, 11 U.S.C. § 523(a)(2)(A), and this Order will have collateral estoppel effect for 
such purposes. 

D.  All money paid to the Commission pursuant to this Order may be deposited into a fund 

administered by the Commission or its designee to be used for relief, including consumer 
redress and any attendant expenses for the administration of any redress fund.  If a 
representative of the Commission decides that direct redress to consumers is wholly or 
partially impracticable or money remains after redress is completed, the Commission may 
apply any remaining money for such other relief (including consumer information 
remedies) as it determines to be reasonably related to Respondent’s practices alleged in 
the Complaint.  Any money not used is to be deposited to the U.S. Treasury. 
Respondent has no right to challenge any activities pursuant to this Provision. 

E.  In the event of default on any obligation to make payment under this Order, interest, 

computed as if pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1961(a), shall accrue from the date of default to 
the date of payment.  In the event such default continues for ten (10) days beyond the 

11 

 
 
 
date that payment is due, the entire amount will immediately become due and payable. 

F.  Each day of nonpayment is a violation through continuing failure to obey or neglect to 
obey a final order of the Commission and thus will be deemed a separate offense and 
violation for which a civil penalty shall accrue. 

G.  Respondent acknowledges that its Taxpayer Identification Numbers (Social Security or 
Employer Identification Number), which Respondent has previously submitted to the 
Commission, may be used for collecting and reporting on any delinquent amount arising 
out of this Order, in accordance with 31 U.S.C. § 7701. 

XI.  Customer Information 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent must directly or indirectly provide sufficient 
customer information to enable the Commission to efficiently administer consumer redress to all 
Covered Customers.  Respondent represents that it has provided this redress information to the 
Commission.  If a representative of the Commission requests in writing any information related 
to redress, Respondent must provide it, in the form prescribed by the Commission representative, 
within fourteen (14) days. 

XII.  Acknowledgments of the Order 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent obtain acknowledgments of receipt of this 

Order: 

A.  Respondent, within ten (10) days after the effective date of this Order, must submit to 
the Commission an acknowledgment of receipt of this Order sworn under penalty of 
perjury. 

B.  For twenty (20) years after the issuance date of this Order, Respondent must deliver a 
copy of this Order to: (1) all principals, officers, directors, and LLC managers and 
members; (2) all employees, agents, and representatives having managerial 
responsibilities for conduct related to the subject matter of the Order; and (3) any 
business entity resulting from any change in structure as set forth in the Provision titled 
Compliance Report and Notices.  Delivery must occur within ten (10) days after the 
effective date of this Order for current personnel.  For all others, delivery must occur 
before they assume their responsibilities. 

C.  From each individual or entity to which Respondent delivered a copy of this Order, 

Respondent must obtain, within thirty (30) days, a signed and dated acknowledgment of 
receipt of this Order. 

XIII.  Compliance Reports and Notices 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent make timely submissions to the 

Commission: 

12 

 
 
 
A.  Ninety (90) days after entry of this Order, Respondent must submit a compliance report, 
sworn under penalty of perjury, describing in detail its compliance with Provision III of 
this Order, titled Destruction of Saliva Samples.  The report shall include, for each 
laboratory that Respondent instructed to destroy physical DNA saliva samples, a 
statement setting forth in detail the laboratory’s response to Respondent, if any, 
including, but not limited to, whether the laboratory destroyed such saliva samples and, if 
not, why the laboratory did not destroy such saliva samples, to the extent that the 
laboratory provided such information to Respondent. 

B.  One year after the issuance date of this Order, Respondent must submit a compliance 
report, sworn under penalty of perjury, in which Respondent must: (1) identify the 
primary physical, postal, and email address and telephone number, as designated points 
of contact, which representatives of the Commission, may use to communicate with 
Respondent; (2) identify all of Respondent’s businesses by all of their names, telephone 
numbers, and physical, postal, email, and Internet addresses; (3) describe the activities of 
each business, including the goods and services offered, what Personal Information is 
collected, and the means of advertising, marketing, and sales; (4) describe in detail 
whether and how Respondent is in compliance with each Provision of this Order, 
including a discussion of all of the material changes Respondent made to comply with the 
Order; and (5) provide a copy of each Acknowledgment of the Order obtained pursuant to 
this Order, unless previously submitted to the Commission. 

C.  Respondent must submit a compliance notice, sworn under penalty of perjury, within 

fourteen (14) days of any change in the following: (1) any designated point of contact; (2) 
the structure of Respondent or any entity that Respondent has any ownership interest in 
or controls directly or indirectly that may affect compliance obligations arising under this 
Order, including: creation, merger, sale, or dissolution of the entity or any subsidiary, 
parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts or practices subject to this Order; or (3) 
ownership of Respondent’s assets where such assets include Health Information, even if 
such change in ownership does not otherwise require the submission of a compliance 
notice. 

D.  Respondent must submit notice of the filing of any bankruptcy petition, insolvency 

proceeding, or similar proceeding by or against Respondent within fourteen (14) days of 
its filing. 

E.  Any submission to the Commission required by this Order to be sworn under penalty of 

perjury must be true and accurate and comply with 28 U.S.C. § 1746, such as by 
concluding: “I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the United States of 
America that the foregoing is true and correct.  Executed on:  
” and supplying the 
date, signatory’s full name, title (if applicable), and signature. 

F.  Unless otherwise directed by a Commission representative in writing, all submissions to 
the Commission pursuant to this Order must be emailed to DEbrief@ftc.gov or sent by 
overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal Service) to: Associate Director for Enforcement, 
Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue 
NW, Washington, DC 20580.  The subject line must begin: “In re 1Health.io Inc., FTC 

13 

 
 
 
File No. 1923170.” 

XIV.  Recordkeeping 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent must create certain records for twenty (20) 
years after the issuance date of the Order, and retain each such record for five (5) years, unless 
otherwise specified below.  Specifically, Respondent must create and retain the following 
records: 

A.  Accounting records showing the revenues from all goods or services sold, the costs 

incurred in generating those revenues, and resulting net profit or loss; 

B.  Personnel records showing, for each person providing services in relation to any aspect of 

the Order, whether as an employee or otherwise, that person’s: name, addresses, 
telephone numbers, job title or position, dates of service, and (if applicable) the reason 
for termination; 

C.  Copies or records of all consumer complaints and refund requests concerning the 

subject matter of the Order, whether received directly or indirectly, such as through 
a third party, and any response; 

D.  A copy of each widely disseminated representation by Respondent that describes the 
extent to which Respondent maintains or protects the privacy, security, availability, 
confidentiality, or integrity of any Personal Information, including any representation 
concerning a change in any website or other service controlled by Respondent that relates 
to privacy, security, availability, confidentiality, or integrity of Personal Information; 

E.  A sample copy of each different document relating to any attempt by Respondent to 
obtain the Affirmative Express Consent of consumers and copies of any documents 
demonstrating such consent provided by consumers, as required by Part II of this Order; 

F.  For five (5) years after the date of preparation of each Assessment required by this Order, 

all materials and evidence that the Assessor considered, reviewed, relied upon or 
examined to prepare the Assessment, whether prepared by or on behalf of Respondent, 
including all plans, reports, studies, reviews, audits, audit trails, policies, training 
materials, and assessments, and any other materials concerning Respondent’s compliance 
with related Provisions of this Order, for the compliance period covered by such 
Assessment; and 

G.  All records necessary to demonstrate full compliance with each Provision of this Order, 

including all submissions to the Commission. 

XV.  Compliance Monitoring 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, for the purpose of monitoring Respondent’s 

compliance with this Order: 

14 

A.  Within ten (10) days of receipt of a written request from a representative of the 

Commission, Respondent must: submit additional compliance reports or other requested 
information, which must be sworn under penalty of perjury, and produce records for 
inspection and copying. 

B.  For matters concerning this Order, representatives of the Commission are authorized to 
communicate directly with Respondent.  Respondent must permit representatives of the 
Commission to interview anyone affiliated with any Respondent who has agreed to such 
an interview.  The interviewee may have counsel present. 

C.  The Commission may use all other lawful means, including posing through its 

representatives as consumers, suppliers, or other individuals or entities, to Respondent or 
any individual or entity affiliated with Respondent, without the necessity of identification 
or prior notice.  Nothing in this Order limits the Commission’s lawful use of compulsory 
process, pursuant to Sections 9 and 20 of the FTC Act, 15 U.S.C. §§ 49, 57b-1. 

XVI.  Order Effective Dates 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that this Order is final and effective upon the date of its 
publication on the Commission’s website (ftc.gov) as a final order.  This Order will terminate 
twenty (20) years from the date of its issuance (which date may be stated at the end of this Order, 
near the Commission’s seal), or twenty (20) years from the most recent date that the United 
States or the Commission files a complaint (with or without an accompanying settlement) in 
federal court alleging any violation of this Order, whichever comes later; provided, however, that 
the filing of such a complaint will not affect the duration of: 

A.  Any Provision in this Order that terminates in less than twenty (20) years; 

B.  This Order’s application to any Respondent that is not named as a defendant in such 

complaint; and 

C.  This Order if such complaint is filed after the Order has terminated pursuant to this 

Provision. 

Provided, further, that if such complaint is dismissed or a federal court rules that the Respondent 
did not violate any provision of the Order, and the dismissal or ruling is either not appealed or 
upheld on appeal, then the Order will terminate according to this Provision as though the 
complaint had never been filed, except that the Order will not terminate between the date such  

15 

complaint is filed and the later of the deadline for appealing such dismissal or rnling and the date 
such dismissal or rnling is upheld on appeal. 

By the Commission. 

April J. Tabor 
Secretaiy 

SEAL : 
ISSUED:  September 6, 2023 

16 

