2023181 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION 

COMMISSIONERS: 

Lina M. Khan, Chair 
Rebecca Kelly Slaughter 
Alvaro M. Bedoya 

In the Matter of 

DECISION AND ORDER 

BLACKBAUD, INC., a corporation. 

DOCKET NO. 

DECISION 

The Federal Trade Commission ("Commission") initiated an investigation of ce1tain acts 
and practices of the Respondent named in the caption.  The Commission 's Bureau of Consumer 
Protection ("BCP") prepared and furnished to Respondent a draft Complaint.  BCP proposed to 
present the draft Complaint to the Commission for its consideration.  If issued by the 
Commission, the draft Complaint would charge the Respondent with violations of the Federal 
Trade Commission Act. 

Respondent and BCP thereafter executed an Agreement Containing Consent Order 
("Consent Agreement").  The Consent Agreement includes: (1) statements by Respondents that it 
neither admits nor denies any of the allegations in the draft Complaint, except as specifically 
stated in this Decision and Order, and that only for pmposes of this action, it admits the facts 
necessa1y  to establish jurisdiction; and (2) waivers and other provisions as required by the 
Commission's Rules. 

The Commission considered the matter and determined that it had reason to believe that 
Respondent has violated the Federal Trade Commission Act, and that a Complaint should issue 
stating its charges in that respect.  The Commission accepted the executed Consent Agreement 
and placed it on the public record for a period of thnty (30) days for the receipt and consideration 
of public comments.  The Commission duly considered any comments received from interested 
persons pursuant to Section 2.34 of its Rules, 16 C.F.R.  § 2.34.  Now, in fuit her conformity with 
the procedure prescribed in Rule 2.34, the Commission issues its Complaint, makes the 
following Findings, and issues the following Order. The paities agree that this Order resolves all 
allegations in the Complaint: 

Page 4 of 17 

Findings

1. Respondent Blackbaud, Inc. (“Blackbaud”) a Delaware corporation with its principal

place of business at 65 Fairchild Street, Charleston, South Carolina 29492.

2. The Commission has jurisdiction over the subject matter of this proceeding and over the

Respondent, and the proceeding is in the public interest.

ORDER

Definitions

1. “Covered Incident” means any incident that results in Respondent notifying, pursuant to
a statutory or regulatory requirement, any U.S. federal, state, or local government entity
that information of or about an individual consumer was, or is reasonably believed to
have been, accessed, acquired, or publicly exposed without authorization.

2. “Covered Information” means information from or about an individual consumer stored
by Respondent’s customers within Respondent’s product databases including:  (a) a first
and last name: (b) a home or physical address; (c) an email address or other online
contact information, such as an instant messaging user identifier or a screen name; (d) a
mobile or other telephone number; (e) a driver’s license or other government-issued
identification number; (f) date of birth; or (g) bank account, credit card, or debit card
information.

3. “Delayed Update Customers” are Respondent’s customers to whom Respondent makes

updates available but who do not automatically implement such updates due to the
complexity of Respondent’s customers implementing such updates into Respondent’s
customers’ environments and business practices.

4. “Delete” “Deleted” or “Deletion” means to remove Covered Information such that it is
not maintained in retrievable form and cannot be retrieved in the normal course of
business.

5. “Respondent” means Blackbaud, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its successors and

assigns.

Provisions

I. Prohibition against Misrepresentations about Privacy and Security

IT IS ORDERED that Respondent, Respondent’s officers, agents, employees, and 

attorneys, and all other persons in active concert or participation with any of them who receive 

Page 5 of 17

actual notice of this Order, whether acting directly or indirectly, in connection with any product 
or service, must not misrepresent in any manner, expressly or by implication:

A. The extent to which Respondent maintains, uses, Deletes, or discloses any Covered

Information;

B. The extent to which Respondent protects the privacy, security, availability,

confidentiality, or integrity of any Covered Information; or

C. The extent of any Covered Incident or unauthorized disclosure, misuse, loss, theft,

alteration, destruction, or other compromise of Covered Information.

II. Mandated Data Deletion

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent must:

A. Within 90 days after the Order Effective Date, Delete or destroy Respondent

customer backup files containing Covered Information that is not being retained in
connection with providing products or services to Respondent’s customers unless
otherwise requested by Respondent’s customers, and provide a written statement to
the Commission, pursuant to the Provision entitled Compliance Reports and Notices,
confirming that all such data has been Deleted or destroyed, specifically enumerating
which types of information were Deleted or destroyed; and

B. Refrain from maintaining any Covered Information not necessary for the purpose(s)

for which such information is stored and/or maintained by Respondent.

Provided, however, that any Covered Information that any Respondent is otherwise 
required to Delete or destroy pursuant to this provision may be retained, and may be disclosed, as 
requested by a government agency or otherwise required by law, regulation, court order, or other 
legal obligation, including as required by rules applicable to the safeguarding of evidence in 
pending litigation.  In each written statement to the Commission required by this provision, such 
Respondent shall describe in detail any Covered Information that Respondent retains on any of 
these bases and the specific government agency, law, regulation, court order, or other legal 
obligation that prohibits Respondent from deleting or destroying such information.  Within thirty 
(30) days after the obligation to retain the information has ended, Respondent shall provide an 
additional written statement to the Commission, sworn under penalty of perjury, confirming that 
Respondent has deleted or destroyed such information.

III.  Data Retention Limits

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent, in connection with the storage, 

maintenance, use, or disclosure of, or provision of access to, Covered Information, must:

Page 6 of 17

A. Within 90 days of the Order Effective Date, document, make publicly available on its
website(s), and adhere to a retention schedule for Respondent customer backup files
containing Covered Information, setting forth:  (1) the purpose or purposes for which
Covered Information is maintained by Respondent; (2) the specific business needs for
Respondent retaining such Covered Information; and (3) a set timeframe for Deletion
of Covered Information that precludes indefinite retention of any Covered
Information. For clarity, the requirements of this Provision III.A shall additionally
apply to the databases containing the Covered Information of former customers and
customers who migrate to a different Respondent product; and

B. Within 90 days after the Order Effective Date, provide a written statement to the
Commission, pursuant to the Provision entitled Compliance Report and Notices,
describing the retention schedule for Respondent customer backup files containing
Covered Information made publicly available on its website(s).

IV. Mandated Information Security Program

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent, and any business that Respondent 
controls directly, or indirectly in connection with the maintenance, use, or disclosure of, or 
provision of access to, Covered Information, must, within ninety (90) days of the Order Effective 
Date, establish and implement, and thereafter maintain, a comprehensive information security 
program that protects the security, confidentiality, and integrity of such Covered Information
(“Information Security Program”).  Delayed Update Customers are exempt from the initial 90-
day timing requirement, but Respondent will assist Delayed Update Customers, upon their 
approval, to update their software in a timely manner.  To satisfy this requirement, Respondent 
must, at a minimum:   

A. Document in writing the content, implementation, and maintenance of the Information

Security Program;

B. Provide the written Information Security Program and any evaluations thereof or updates
thereto to Respondent’s board of directors or governing body or, if no such board or
equivalent governing body exists, to a senior officer of Respondent responsible for
Respondent’s Information Security Program at least once every twelve (12) months and
promptly (not to exceed thirty (30) days) after a Covered Incident;

C. Designate a qualified employee or employees to coordinate and be responsible for the

Information Security Program;

D. Assess and document, at least once every twelve (12) months and promptly (not to

exceed thirty (30) days) following a Covered Incident, internal and external risks to the
security, confidentiality, or integrity of Covered Information that could result in: (1)  the

Page 7 of 17

unauthorized storage, maintenance, alteration, use, or disclosure of, or provision of access 
to, Covered Information; or (2) the misuse, loss, theft, and unauthorized alteration, 
destruction, or other compromise of Covered Information;

E. Design, implement, maintain, and document safeguards within Respondent’s control that

control for the internal and external risks Respondent identifies to the security,
confidentiality, or integrity of Covered Information identified in response to sub-
Provision D.  Each safeguard must be based on the volume and sensitivity of the Covered
Information that is at risk, and the likelihood that the risk could be realized and result in:
(1) the unauthorized storage, maintenance, use, or disclosure of, or provision of access to,
Covered Information; or (2) the misuse, loss, theft, and unauthorized alteration,
destruction, or other compromise of Covered Information.  Such safeguards must also
include:

1. A written information security policy and accompanying written standards or

procedures that describe, at a minimum:  (a) how Respondent implements each of
the safeguards identified in this sub-Provision; and (b) how Respondent assesses
and enforces compliance with these safeguards and any other controls it identifies
in the policy and accompanying standards and procedures;

2. Standards, procedures, and policy provisions mandating security education that

address internal or external risks Respondent identifies under sub-Provision D of
this Provision, and that includes, at a minimum:  (a) training for Respondent’s
employees about Respondent’s security policy, standards, and procedures,
including the requirements of this Order and the process for submitting
complaints and concerns, to be conducted when an employee begins employment
or takes on a new role, and on at least an annual basis thereafter; and (b) training
in secure software development principles, including secure engineering and
defensive programming concepts, for developers, engineers, system
administrators, and other employees that design, implement, and operate
Respondent’s products or services or that are otherwise responsible for the
security of Covered Information;

3. Policy provisions and, to the extent possible, technical measures requiring

Respondent’s employees or contractors, or third parties to secure any accounts
with access to a Respondent’s information technology infrastructure by:  (a) using
strong, unique passwords; and (b) preventing password reuse and password
rotation through implementing appropriate tools;

4. Requiring multi-factor authentication methods for all employees and contractors

of Respondent and its affiliates in order to access any assets (including databases)
storing Covered Information. Such multi-factor authentication methods for all

Page 8 of 17

employees and contractors of Respondent and its affiliates shall not include 
telephone or SMS-based authentication methods and must be resistant to phishing 
attacks. Respondent may use widely adopted industry authentication options that 
provide at least equivalent security as the multi-factor authentication options 
required by this sub-Provision, if approved in writing by the Commission;

5. Requiring multi-factor authentication methods for all Respondent’s customers,

except for those customers who use enterprise single sign on solutions within their
organizations to access Respondent products and for Delayed Update Customers.
However, Respondent shall make available an update for multi-factor
authentication methods for Delayed Update Customers;

6. Technical measures, standards, procedures, and policy provisions to:  (a) log and

monitor access to repositories of Covered Information; (b) limit access to Covered
Information by, at a minimum, limiting Respondent employee and service
provider access to what is needed to perform that employee’s or service
provider’s job function; (c) grant and audit varying levels of access based on an
employee’s need to know; and (d) periodically monitor and terminate employee
and contractor accounts following inappropriate usage or termination of
employment;

7. Technical measures, standards, procedures, and policy provisions to control
access to Respondent’s customer databases containing Covered Information,
including, at a minimum:  (a) for Respondent’s and its affiliates’ employees and
contractors, restrictions of inbound connections to those originating from
approved IP addresses, such as corporate VPN; (b) requiring connections to be
authenticated and encrypted;  and (c) periodic audits of account permissions;

8. Technical measures, standards, procedures, and policy provisions relating to
Covered Information which:  (a) monitor and log transfers or exfiltration of
Covered Information from Respondent’s network boundaries; (b) monitor and log
data security events and other anomalous activity; and (c) verify the effectiveness
of monitoring and logging;

9. Technical measures to safeguard against unauthorized access to Covered

Information, including: (a) an intrusion prevention or detection system; (b) file
integrity monitoring tools; (c) data loss prevention tools; (d) properly configured
firewalls; and (e) properly configured physical or logical segmentation of
networks, systems and databases;

Page 9 of 17

10. Authentication procedures designed to prevent one customer’s credentials from
accessing another customer’s data or other unauthorized areas in Respondent’s
networks;

11. Technical measures, procedures, and policy provisions to systematically inventory
assets (including databases) storing Covered Information and Delete Respondent
customer backup files containing Covered Information that is no longer
necessary;

12. Encryption of, at a minimum, fields in Respondent’s products designed to store
Social Security numbers, passport numbers, tax ID information, driver’s license
or other government-issued identification numbers; bank account, credit card, or
debit card information, dates of birth associated with a consumer, Medical
Information associated with a consumer, and user account credentials on
Respondent’s computer networks, including but not limited to cloud storage;

13. Technical measures, procedures, and policy provisions to address the maintenance

of any new type of information related to consumers that was not being
maintained as of the issuance data of this Order, including: (a) the purposes or
purposes for which the new information is maintained; (b) the specific business
needs for maintaining the new information; and (c) encryption of sensitive
consumer information; and

14. Enforcing policies and procedures consistent with this Order designed to ensure
the timely investigation of data security events and the timely remediation of
critical and high-risk security vulnerabilities relating to Covered Information.

F. Assess, at least once every twelve (12) months and promptly (not to exceed thirty (30)

days) following a Covered Incident, the sufficiency of any safeguards in place to address
the internal and external risks to the security, confidentiality, or integrity of Covered
Information, and modify the Information Security Program based on the results;

G. Test and monitor the effectiveness of the safeguards specified in this Provision at least
once every twelve (12) months and promptly (not to exceed 30 days) following a
Covered Incident and modify the Information Security Program based on the results.
Such testing and monitoring must include vulnerability scanning of Respondent’s
network(s) containing Covered Information once every four months and promptly (not to
exceed 30 days) after a Covered Incident, and penetration testing of Respondent’s
network(s) containing Covered Information at least once every twelve (12) months and
promptly (not to exceed 30 days) after a Covered Incident;

H. Select and retain service providers capable of safeguarding Covered Information they

access through or receive from Respondent, and contractually require service providers to

Page 10 of 17

implement and maintain safeguards sufficient to address the internal and external risks to 
the security, confidentiality, or integrity of Covered Information; and 

I. Evaluate and adjust the Information Security Program in light of any material changes to
Respondent’s operations or business arrangements, a Covered Incident, new or more
efficient technological or operational methods to control for the risks identified in sub-
Provision IV.D of this Order, or any other circumstances that Respondent knows or has
reason to know may have an impact on the effectiveness of the Information Security
Program or any of its individual safeguards.  At a minimum, Respondent must evaluate
the Information Security Program at least once every twelve (12) months and modify the
Information Security Program based on the results.

V. Information Security Assessments by a Third Party

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, in connection with compliance with Provision IV of 

this Order titled Mandated Information Security Program, Respondent must obtain initial and 
biennial assessments (“Assessments”):

A. The Assessments must be obtained from a qualified, objective, independent third-party

professional (“Assessor”), who:  (1) uses procedures and standards generally accepted in
the profession; (2) conducts an independent review of the Information Security Program;
(3) retains all documents relevant to each Assessment for five (5) years after completion
of such Assessment: and (4) will provide such documents to the Commission within ten
(10) days of receipt of a written request from a representative of the Commission.  No
documents may be withheld by the Assessor on the basis of a claim of confidentiality,
proprietary or trade secrets, work product protection, attorney product protection,
attorney-client privilege, statutory exemption, or any similar claim. Respondent may
satisfy the requirements to obtain Assessments through the use of assessments that are
also intended to meet the requirements of other regulatory mandates to which Respondent
is subject, provided that such assessments meet the requirements of the Information
Security Program set forth in this Order.

B. For each Assessment, Respondent must provide the Associate Director for Enforcement
for the Bureau of Consumer Protection at the Federal Trade Commission with the name,
affiliation, and qualifications of the proposed Assessor, whom the Associate Director
shall have the authority to approve in their sole discretion.

C. The reporting period for the Assessments must cover: (1) at least the first 180 days after
the Information Security Program is established for the initial Assessment; and (2) each
2-year period thereafter for twenty (20) years after issuance of the Order for the biennial
Assessments.

Page 11 of 17

D. Each Assessment must, for the entire assessment period:  (1) determine whether

Respondent has implemented and maintained the Information Security Program required
by Provision IV of this Order, titled Mandated Information Security Program; (2) assess
the effectiveness of Respondent’s implementation and maintenance of sub-Provisions
IV.A-I; (3) identify any gaps or weaknesses in, or instances of material noncompliance
with, the Information Security Program; (4) address the status of gaps or weaknesses in,
or instances of material non-compliance with, the Information Security Program that
were identified in any prior Assessment required by this Order; and (5) identify specific
evidence (including documents reviewed, sampling and testing performed, and interviews
conducted) examined to make such determinations, assessments, and identifications, and
explain why the evidence that the Assessor examined is (a) appropriate for assessing an
enterprise of Respondent’s size, complexity, and risk profile; and (b) sufficient to justify
the Assessor’s findings. No finding of any Assessment shall rely primarily on assertions
or attestations by Respondent’s management. The Assessment must be signed by the
Assessor, state that the Assessor conducted an independent review of the Information
Security Program and did not rely primarily on assertions or attestations by Respondent’s
management, and state the number of hours that each member of the Assessor’s
assessment team worked on the Assessment.  To the extent that Respondent revises,
updates, or adds one or more safeguards required under Provision IV of this Order during
an Assessment period, the Assessment must assess the effectiveness of the revised,
updated, or added safeguard(s) for the time period in which it was in effect, and provide a
separate statement detailing the basis for each revised, updated, or additional safeguard.

E. The initial Assessment must be completed within one hundred and twenty (120) days

after the end of the reporting period for the initial Assessment. Each subsequent biennial
Assessment must be completed within sixty (60) days after the end of the reporting
period to which the Assessment applies.  Unless otherwise directed by a Commission
representative in writing, Respondent must submit the initial Assessment to the
Commission within ten (10) days after the Assessment has been completed via email to
DEbrief@ftc.gov or by overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal Service) to Associate
Director for Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission,
600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC  20580.  The subject line must begin,
“In re Blackbaud, FTC File No. 2023181.”  All subsequent biennial Assessments must be
retained by Respondent until the order is terminated and provided to the Associate
Director for Enforcement within ten (10) days of request.  The initial Assessment and any
subsequent biennial Assessment provided to the Commission must be marked, in the
upper right-hand corner of each page, with the words “DPIP Assessment” in red lettering.

VI. Cooperation with Third Party Information Security Assessor

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent, whether acting directly or indirectly, in 

connection with any Assessment required by Provision V of this Order titled Information 
Security Assessments by a Third Party, must:

Page 12 of 17

A. Provide or otherwise make available to the Assessor all information and material in its
possession, custody, or control that is relevant to the Assessment for which there is no
reasonable claim of privilege.

B. Provide or otherwise make available to the Assessor information about Respondent’s

network(s) and all of Respondent’s IT assets that maintain Covered Information so that
the Assessor can determine the scope of the Assessment, and visibility to those portions
of the network(s) and IT assets deemed in scope; and

C. Disclose all material facts to the Assessor, and not misrepresent in any manner, expressly
or by implication, any fact material to the Assessor’s:  (1) determination of whether
Respondent has implemented and maintained the Information Security Program required
by Provision IV of this Order, titled Mandated Information Security Program; (2)
assessment of the effectiveness of the implementation and maintenance of sub-Provisions
IV.A-I; or (3) identification of any gaps or weaknesses in, or instances of material
noncompliance with, the Information Security Program.

VII. Annual Certification

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent must:

A. One year after the issuance date of this Order, and each year thereafter, provide the

Commission with a certification from Respondent’s Chief Information Security Officer
responsible for Respondent’s Information Security Program that:  (1) Respondent has
established, implemented, and maintained the requirements of this Order; (2) Respondent
is not aware of any material noncompliance that has not been (a) corrected or (b)
disclosed to the Commission; and (3) includes a brief description of all Covered Incidents
during the certified period.  The certification must be based on the personal knowledge of
the senior corporate manager, senior officer, or subject matter experts upon whom the
senior corporate manager or senior officer reasonably relies in making the certification.

B. Unless otherwise directed by a Commission representative in writing, submit all annual
certifications to the Commission pursuant to this Order via email to DEbrief@ftc.gov or
by overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal Service) to Associate Director for Enforcement,
Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue
NW, Washington, DC  20580.  The subject line must begin, “In re Blackbaud, FTC File
No. 2023181.”

Page 13 of 17

VIII.  Covered Incident Reports 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, within ten (10) days of any notification to a United 

States federal, state, or local entity of a Covered Incident, Respondent must submit a repo1i to the 
Commission.  The repo1i must include, to the extent possible: 

A.  The date, estimated date, or estimated date range when the Covered Incident occuned; 

B.  A description of the facts relating to the Covered Incident, including the causes of the 

Covered Incident, if known; 

C.  A description of each type of infonnation that was affected by the Covered Incident; 

D.  The number of Respondent's customers affected by the Covered Incident; 

E.  The acts that Respondent has taken to date to remediate the Covered Incident and protect 
Covered Infonnation from fmiher exposure or access, and protect affected individuals 
from identity theft or other haim that may result from the Covered Incident; and 

F.  A representative copy of any materially different notice sent by Respondent to its 

customers, or to any U.S.  federal, state, or local government entity. 

Unless othe1wise directed by a Commission representative in writing, all Covered 
Incident reports to the Commission pursuant to this Order must be emailed to DEbrief@ftc.gov 
or sent by overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal Service) to Associate Director for Enforcement, 
Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, 
Washington, DC  20580.  The subj ect line must begin, "In re Blackbaud Inc, FTC File No. 
2023181." 

IX.  Order Acknowledgements 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent obtain acknowledgments ofreceipt of this 

Order: 

A.  Respondent, within 10 days after the Order Effective Date, must submit to the 

Commission an acknowledgment ofreceipt of this Order sworn under penalty of pe1jmy. 

8.  For 20 years after issuance ofthis Order, Respondent must deliver a copy of this Order 

to:  (1) all principals, officers, and directors; (2) all employees having managerial 
responsibilities for cybersecurity, privacy, and the collection, use, or disclosure of 
Covered Info1mation, and all agents and representatives who paiiicipate in cybersecurity, 
privacy, and the collection, use, or disclosure of Covered Info1mation; and (3) any 
business entity resulting from any change in strncture as set fo1ih in Provision X. 

Page 14 of 17 

Delive1y must occur within 10 days of the Order Effective Date for current personnel. 
For all others, delive1y must occur before they assume their responsibilities. 

C.  From each individual or entity to which Respondent delivered a copy of this Order, 

Respondent must obtain, within 30 days, a signed and dated acknowledgment of receipt 
of this Order. 

X.  Compliance Reporting 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent make timely submissions to the 

Commission: 

A.  One year after issuance of this Order, Respondent must submit a compliance repo1i, 

sworn under penalty of pe1jmy.  Respondent must:  (a) identify the primaiy physical, 
postal, and email address and telephone nlllllber, as designated points of contact, which 
representatives of the Commission may use to collllllunicate with Respondent; (b) 
identify all of Respondent's businesses by all of their names, telephone numbers, and 
physical, postal, email, and Internet addresses; (c) describe the activities of each business, 
including the goods and services offered, the means of adve1iising, marketing, and sales; 
( d) describe in detail whether and how Respondent is in compliance with each Provision 
of this Order; and ( e) provide a copy of each Order Acknowledgment obtained pursuant 
to this Order, unless previously submitted to the Commission. 

B.  For 20 years after issuance of this Order, Respondent must submit a compliance notice, 
sworn under penalty of pe1jmy , within 14 days of any change in the following:  (a) any 
designated point of contact; or (b) the stru cture of any entity that Respondent has any 
ownership interest in or contl'ols directly or indirectly that may affect compliance 
obligations arising under this Order, including:  creation, merger, sale, or dissolution of 
the entity or any subsidia1y , parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts or practices 
subject to this Order. 

C.  Respondent must submit to the Commission notice of the filing of any bankrnptcy 

petition, insolvency proceeding, or similar proceeding by or against Respondent within 
14 days of its filing. 

D.  Any submission to the Commission required by this Order to be sworn under penalty of 

pe1j my  must be tiue and accurate and comply with 28 U.S .C. § 1746, such as by 
concluding:  "I declare under penalty of pe1jmy under the laws of the United States of 
America that the foregoing is tiue and correct.  Executed on:  __  " and supplying the 
date, signato1y's full name, title (if applicable), and signature. 

E.  Unless othe1wise directed by a Commission representative in writing, all submissions to 
the Commission pursuant to this Order must be emailed to DEbrief@ftc.gov or sent by 

Page 15 of 17 

overnight courier (not the U.S . Postal Service) to:  Associate Director for Enforcement, 
Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue 
NW, Washington, DC  20580.  The subject line must begin: "In re Blackbaud, Inc." 

XI.  Recordkeeping 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent must create certain records for 20 years after 

issuance of the Order and retain each such record for 5 years .  Specifically, Respondent must 
create and retain the following records: 

A. 

8. 

C. 

D. 

E. 

Accounting records showing the revenues from all goods or services sold; 

Personnel records showing, for each person providing services relating to 
Covered Info1mation, whether as an employee or othe1w ise, that person's:  name; 
addresses; telephone numbers; job title or position; dates of service; and (if 
applicable) the reason for te1mination; 

Records of all consumer complaints regarding security, privacy, or identity theft 
related to Covered Information whether received directly or indirectly, such as 
through a third party, and any response; 

All records necessa1y  to demonstrate full compliance with each provision of this 
Order, including all submissions to the Commission; and 

A copy of each widely disseminated, unique adve1i isement or other marketing 
material that references or othe1w ise relates to Respondent's privacy and data 
security practices. 

XII.  Compliance Monitoring 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, for the pmpose of monitoring Respondent's compliance 

with this Order: 

A. 

Within 14 days of receipt of a written request from a representative of the 
Commission, Respondent must:  submit additional compliance repo1is or other 
requested infonnation, which must be sworn under penalty of pe1j my; appear for 
depositions and produce documents for inspection and copying.  The Commission 
is also authorized to obtain discove1y , without fuii her leave of comi, using any of 
the procedures prescribed by Federal Rules of Civil Procedure 29, 30 (including 
telephonic depositions), 31, 33, 34, 36, 45 , and 69. 

B. 

For matters concerning this Order, the Commission is authorized to communicate 
directly with Respondent.  Respondent must pennit representatives of the 
Commission to interview any employee or other person affiliated with 

Page 16 of 17 

Respondent who has agreed to such an interview.  The person interviewed may 
have counsel present.

C.

The Commission may use all other lawful means, including posing, through its
representatives as consumers, suppliers, or other individuals or entities, to
Respondent or any individual or entity affiliated with Respondent, without the
necessity of identification or prior notice.  Nothing in this Order limits the
Commission’s lawful use of compulsory process, pursuant to Sections 9 and 20 of
the FTC Act, 15 U.S.C. §§ 49, 57b-1.

XIII. Order Effective Dates

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that this Order is final and effective upon the date of its 
publication on the Commission’s website (ftc.gov) as a final order (the “Order Effective Date”).  
This Order will terminate 20 years from the date of its issuance (which date may be stated at the 
end of this Order, near the Commission’s seal), or 20 years from the most recent date that the 
United States or the Commission files a complaint (with or without an accompanying settlement) 
in federal court alleging any violation of this Order, whichever comes later; provided, however, 
that the filing of such a complaint will not affect the duration of: 

A. Any Provision in this Order that terminates in less than 20 years;

B. This Order’s application to any Respondent that is not named as a defendant in such

complaint; and

C. This Order if such complaint is filed after the Order has terminated pursuant to this

Provision.

Provided, further, that if such complaint is dismissed or a federal court rules that the Respondent 
did not violate any provision of the Order, and the dismissal or ruling is either not appealed or 
upheld on appeal, then the Order will terminate according to this Provision as though the 
complaint had never been filed, except that the Order will not terminate between the date such 
complaint is filed and the later of the deadline for appealing such dismissal or ruling and the date 
such dismissal or ruling is upheld on appeal. 

By the Commission. 

April J. Tabor 
Secretary

SEAL:
ISSUED:

Page 17 of 17

